Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Olivia Chow is the first left-leaning challenger to incumbent Rob Ford.
			
Olivia Chow will return to the hardscrabble Toronto neighbourhood where she grew up to launch her campaign Thursday to become mayor of Canada’s largest city.
Just hours after resigning her NDP seat in the House of Commons, Chow officially joined the race Wednesday afternoon.
A member of her campaign team registered Chow’s candidacy at city hall, a day earlier than expected.
“Why not, no reason,” said Bill Cronau, her campaign’s chief financial officer.
Another volunteer, Bob Gallagher, also signed the paperwork, as did city Councillor Mike Layton, son of Chow’s late husband, NDP leader Jack Layton.
More on the election:.
The left-leaning politician joins an already crowded field of right-wing contenders preaching fiscal restraint.
Chow is expected to promise bold, progressive changes for the city.
Her challengers, including Mayor Rob Ford, wasted no time painting her as a spendthrift politician while evoking the past.
Ford told CP24 he welcomed Chow’s entry in the race and said she makes former mayor David Miller “look like a conservative.”
Councillor Karen Stintz’s mayoralty campaign issued a statement saying the city can’t afford “to go back to the ways of an NDP Mayor.”
“Toronto needs someone reasonable and accountable in the mayor’s chair, not someone who is going to perpetuate old-style ‘tax and spend’ attitudes,” the email said.
Businessman David Soknacki steered clear of any attack Wednesday as he stumped for the mayor’s job in the snow.
He and Chow were both city councillors during the reigns of both Mel Lastman and David Miller.
“Welcome to the race, look forward to debate, look forward to the seven months ahead,” Soknacki said.
Voters go to the polls Oct.
27.
Chow has led in most polls of potential contenders over the past year; the most recent, a late February survey by Forum Research, put her in a tie with Ford and gave her a slight lead over Tory.
Chow’s campaign will be managed by veteran John Laschinger, who has run campaigns for Miller and top provincial and federal Conservatives.
Warren Kinsella, the veteran Liberal strategist, is also involved.
Chow has been endorsed by George Smitherman — the Liberal who was defeated by Ford in 2010 — and filmmaker Deepa Mehta, among others.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				David Soknacki speaks to reporters after a speech in December.
The former councillor will be jumping into the race Monday, a typical move for candidates who need time to build name recognition against better known contenders.
			
Mayor Rob Ford is already on the ballot, having filed his paperwork Thursday.
But it looks like the rest of the likely-to-runs — Karen Stintz, John Tory, Olivia Chow and Denzil Minnan-Wong — won’t be getting in for at least another month, possibly as late as early spring.
In a 10-month campaign, when is the right moment for a candidate to make it official?.
Rocco Rossi, who took on Ford and George Smitherman in the last election, says the timing question is a balancing act that’s different for everyone.
In 2010, Rossi signed up as soon as the nomination process opened.
Back then, Rossi was a heavyweight in political circles, having served formerly as the Liberal Party of Canada director, but a virtual unknown to the broader public.
There’s also the issue of money.
Candidates can’t start fundraising until they’ve registered.
A viable mayoral campaign needs a little more than a million dollars.
And all of that takes time.
The downside is that Toronto’s municipal election period is one of the longest — perhaps the longest — in the country.
It spans 10 long and expensive months.
Registration means candidates can accept donations, but also means they can start spending.
Staff, signage, a website, an office, launching a brand — a million dollars goes fast, Rossi said.
Ford is the first, and the worse, in 2014 election: Editorial.
There’s also a practical benefit to watching from the sidelines as long as possible.
“The sooner you get in, the sooner you have to answer questions.
And for some who don’t have to worry as much about name recognition, you don’t want to have to answer those questions until the very last moment, tactically,” he said.
“You could be put on the defensive earlier than you want to be,” he said.
Rossi, who is now the president of Prostate Cancer Canada, had been the CEO of Ontario’s Heart & Stroke Foundation before he quit to run for mayor.
Though it was not his first dalliance with local politics.
In 2003, Rossi ran John Tory’s near-miss campaign against David Miller.
Now that he was the candidate, Rossi was hoping to inherit Tory’s centre-right base.
For an unknown, he got off to a reasonable start.
A January 2010 Angus Reid-Toronto Star poll put Rossi’s support at 15 per cent, with Smitherman way out in front.
Then everything fell apart for him — and everyone else in the race — at the end of March, after Ford declared.
“It was surreal.
From the moment he came in, I mean, he just sucked up all of the oxygen.
And I can’t think of anything (I would have done differently) that would have made a significant difference,” Rossi said.
Ford had a rock-hard brand on taxes, waste and entitlements.
It was a message that resonated with the mood of the electorate.
At the time, it made sense for Ford to wait a few months before getting in, the same way it makes sense for Tory — who now has his radio show on Newstalk 1010 — and Chow, one of the most high-profile politicians in the country.
But this time around, Rossi says he wasn’t surprised to hear the mayor filed his papers early.
“I think he wants to send a clear message to everyone — in particularly those on the centre right — that he will be there.
And that makes the math on the centre right very difficult, because he does have a hard core of support,” Rossi said.
For the 2014 campaign, Soknacki will be the Rossi in the race.
Soknacki is a businessman, a former columnist with Metroland, and during his time on council served as the city’s budget chief.
As a right-leaning candidate with business bona fides, Soknacki has the resume, just not the name recognition.
“We’re facing somewhat of an uphill battle when it comes to name recognition and don’t really have the luxury of a daily radio talk show or an upcoming book tour to spread our message or get David’s name out there,” said his spokesperson, Supriya Dwivedi, taking a not-so-subtle jab at Tory and at Chow, who will soon release a well-timed memoir.
Dwivedi also said Soknacki “has been quite clear from the onset that he intended to register early, and doesn’t really believe in playing the ‘will he or won't he’ game with registration.”
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
The Star's Daniel Dale explains the findings of of Mayor Ford's campaign audit and what comes next.
Feb.
1, 2013.
Mayor Rob Ford’s 2010 campaign exceeded the legal spending limit and committed other “apparent contraventions” of election law, an audit released on Friday concluded.
Ford, who won a high-stakes conflict of interest lawsuit only a week ago, may now see his tumultuous mayoralty wounded yet again by a lengthy legal battle.
If he is eventually found guilty of violating the Municipal Elections Act, he could be fined or removed from office — though removal is highly unlikely.
The auditor, Bruce Armstrong of Froese Forensic Partners, identified numerous instances in which he says the campaign appears to have broken the law.
According to Armstrong, the campaign exceeded the $1.3-million spending limit by $40,168, or about 3 per cent; improperly accepted an early-campaign loan from a Ford family company, on improper no-interest terms; incurred $5,805 in expenses before Ford registered as a candidate; accepted $6,000 in banned corporate donations; and wrongly classified promotional events as “fundraisers,” which are exempt from the spending limit
The audit is now in the hands of the city’s compliance audit committee.
The committee, composed of three non-politician experts, will decide at a Feb.
25 meeting whether to take no further action or to begin legal proceedings.
If the committee chooses to proceed, the city will hire a special prosecutor.
That prosecutor would independently decide whether to lay charges.
Any court case could well continue into the 2014 campaign; the prosecutor could take months just to make a decision on which charges to pursue.
Ford did not speak to reporters or issue a statement on the audit’s findings.
The two men who filed the complaint against Ford, Adam Chaleff-Freudenthaler and Max Reed, urged the committee to launch a prosecution.
“Based on the extraordinary number and severity of the apparent contraventions of election law by Rob Ford, the applicants will be requesting the compliance audit committee proceed with prosecution in a timely manner,” Heidi Rubin, their lawyer, said in a statement.
Severe penalties for campaign finance violations are rare in Ontario, and the elections law gives the courts more leeway in sentencing than the conflict of interest law Ford was previously accused of breaking.
In 2006, when Hamilton mayor Larry Di Ianni pleaded guilty to six charges, he agreed to pay $4,500 to charity and write an article for a magazine.
Councillor Doug Ford, the mayor’s brother and his campaign manager, said he found the audit “fair” in general.
But he said the campaign was pushed over the spending limit by minor transgressions — “onesies and twosies” — on which their opinion differed from Armstrong’s.
He took issue, in particular, with Armstrong’s conclusion that four events were not actually fundraisers.
One event, at the Grand Baccus hall in Scarborough, cost the campaign nearly $28,000 but raised less than $3,000.
Armstrong argued that the event was primarily intended to increase Ford’s profile, not to fundraise.
“They say these big events weren't fundraisers, like the Grand Baccus, because we spent $27,000 and raised $3,000,” Doug Ford said, “but we did a (fundraising) mailer after that.
What you raise isn't just what you take at the door.
Modern campaigns don't work like that.”
He said he was confident that Ford’s team could explain itself to the compliance audit committee.
“We don’t think we did anything wrong,” he said.
“We were so compliant, we were so organized, we have nothing to hide.” 
The law gives the courts the right to let violators off the hook if they acted “in good faith” and “committed the offence inadvertently or because of an error in judgment.” In an April statement, Rob Ford asserted that he had acted in good faith.
“I don’t know if it was deliberate, conniving, or evil.
What I do know is it was a lot of little cheating,” Vaughan said.
“Who in this City Hall doesn’t know you can’t spend money before you register? It’s sloppy, it’s stupid, it’s silly, it’s cheating.
When you don’t play by the rules, you’re a cheater.
Is it enough to kick him off council? No.
But it sure tells you exactly who he is as a person.”
Armstrong found that the campaign “received a benefit” from having Doug Ford Holdings improperly pay $77,722 worth of expenses and then paying the company back without interest.
Campaigns can only take loans from recognized lending institutions, Armstrong wrote, and preferential loan terms amount to a corporate donation.
The campaign, Armstrong found, did not return 11 donations from companies, totalling $6,000 — the biggest of which, a $2,500 contribution, originated with former premier Mike Harris.
The donation came from Harris’ firm, Steane Consulting.
The audit provided a glimpse into the operations and the disputes of the Ford juggernaut.
One of the apparent contraventions identified by Armstrong: Doug Ford’s alleged refusal to pay a full $71,167 bill submitted by the company, Wexler Productions, that provided the lighting, sound, and broadcast services for Ford’s victory party.
The campaign paid $35,000.
“During our meeting on January 20, 2013,” Armstrong wrote, “Doug recalled his discussions with Bernie and was adamant that the expenses initially invoiced were excessive and unreasonable.”
Reed, a lawyer, and Chaleff-Freudenthaler, a left-leaning activist and former vice-chair of the library board, were silent partners in the conflict of interest case that nearly forced Ford out of office.
Doug Ford darkly questioned their motives on Friday, calling them left-wing ideologues trying to “politically kill Rob.” Chaleff-Freudenthaler has said that he is simply trying to ensure politicians play by the rules.
The three compliance audit committee members are chair Douglas Colbourne, a chartered accountant and former chair of the Ontario Municipal Board; John Hollins, former chief electoral officer for Elections Ontario; and Virginia MacLean, a municipal lawyer based in Oakville.
Now available from StarDispatches: Star journalist Kenneth Kidd’s new eRead “Rob Ford: A Date with Destiny” is a clear and cogent look at the Rob Ford administration leading up to the audit.


.
To get the full story, simply go to stardispatches.com and subscribe for $1/week
“Rob Ford: A Date with Destiny” is also available for single-copy purchase at  starstore.ca or iTunes.ca/StarDispatches for $2.99.


        
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  That’s because, despite all his bluster about sweeping to victory, Rob Ford won’t be re-elected as mayor when voters go to the polls in October.


  Indeed, Ford stands a real chance of finishing a poor third in the race and could end up playing more of a role as a spoiler than being a viable contender for the mayor’s office.


  As much as Ford Nation will cry unfair, defeat for Ford is the most likely outcome of this race that pits the crack-smoking, ill-mannered mayor against top contenders Olivia Chow and John Tory.


  Clearly, many Toronto residents are deeply worried that the mayor could win this election.
Those concerns seem to be even more exaggerated among those “elites,” “lefties” and “downtowners” Ford uses as verbal punching bags in his campaign speeches.


  They are based on early polls that suggest Ford has a voter approval rating forever stuck between 40 and 45 per cent, regardless of what shame he brings on himself and the city, on television images of 1,500 wildly cheering Ford enthusiasts at his
  
    campaign kick-off
  
  event, of scenes of people clamouring for Ford bobbleheads and lining up to take “selfies” photos with the mayor wherever he shows up.


  Added to that is the international “celebrity” status that Ford has garnered after appearing on U.S
late-night shows.


  Taken together, they might suggest Ford could be re-elected, coming up the middle as Chow and Tory — and Karen Stintz and David Soknacki to a lesser extent — split the anti-Ford vote.


  Ford has no growth potential in the polls; he lacks support from any major community, political, religious or academic leader; every newspaper, including the Toronto Sun, which endorsed him in 2010, opposes his candidacy; and his lone main campaign message of controlling city hall spending can be easily usurped by other candidates.


  To win, Ford needs to capture 37-42 per cent of the votes in the Oct.
27 election.
Currently, only 23-27 per cent of Toronto voters say they would actually vote for him in the election.
To be re-elected, Ford must improve that number by about 50 per cent.


  But where does that extra support come from? An
  
    Ipsos Reid poll
  
  in December conducted on behalf of CTV News indicated 61 per cent of voters would never consider voting for Ford.
Also, Ford is the second choice of few voters polled compared with Chow and Tory.


  In the 2010 election, Ford got 47 per cent of the votes.
Many of them held their noses when they cast their ballots for Ford, disliking his personal failings but loving his message of “Stop the Gravy Train.”


  To date, Ford has done nothing to try to win them back.
Rather, he is frantically trying to solidify his core base, playing up his “celebrity” and bashing the “elites” he claims are out to get him.


  Also, the bulk of Ford’s supporters are young, lower income, less educated, male and from outer parts of suburbs such as Scarborough and North York.
All these groups are the least likely to vote in an election, which greatly hurts Ford’s campaign efforts.


  It’s because most Toronto residents believe city hall is failing to take vigilant care of their tax dollars.
To that end, Ford is seen as the guy who really cares about this issue.


  With Ford, voters like the message but hate the behaviour.
With Chow, voters like the behaviour but are wary about her message on spending.
With Tory, they like the behaviour but aren’t sure of the message.


  No doubt, Ford will remain a big factor in the race because of his message.
At the same time, election campaigns really do matter, as Tory knows from his failed 2003 mayoral bid.


  Ultimately, though, barring any unforeseen implosion by
  
    both
  
  Chow and Tory, Ford’s days as mayor will soon be over — and the city can relax again.

The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Real-life ‘Shawshank’ prisoner recaptured after 56 years on the run
					.

						Video Fact-checking 10 claims made by parents against the Ontario sex-ed curriculum comments
					.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				John Tory did well in the poll conducted by Forum Research on the day he formally registered his candidacy for mayor of Toronto.
			
Olivia Chow, John Tory and Rob Ford are locked in a tight early race for Toronto’s mayoralty, though Tory and Chow have much more room than Ford to improve, according to the first opinion poll since Tory announced his candidacy.
Monday’s Forum Research poll of 1,310 residents, conducted on the day Tory and Karen Stintz registered to run, gave Tory 39 per cent support, Ford 33 per cent, Stintz 15 per cent, and David Soknacki 5 per cent in a race among the major declared candidates.
Chow, the NDP MP, has not formally started campaigning; she is almost certain to register by the end of March.
In a hypothetical race with Chow included, she and Ford tied at 31 per cent; Tory, the former Progressive Conservative leader, had 27 per cent; Stintz, a city councillor, had 6 per cent; Soknacki, a former councillor, had 2 per cent.
Those figures suggest Ford will struggle to stay afloat if voters who are unhappy with him eventually coalesce around a single top challenger.
A competitive slugfest between two or more challengers, however, could give the polarizing incumbent a chance to eke out a victory with less than 40 per cent of the vote.
Tory’s Monday numbers were higher than they were in Forum’s other polls this winter.
He had the highest approval rating, at 55 per cent.
Ford’s approval was stable at 44 per cent.
Chow’s was 51 per cent, Stintz’s 38 per cent, Soknacki’s 26 per cent.
Tory’s support was spread relatively evenly throughout the city.
Chow was strongest in the old municipalities of Toronto and East York, with 39 per cent; Ford was weakest in those areas, with only 19 per cent, but stronger than both Chow and Tory in the suburbs.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
A secret request to alter her pay and a string of spending scandals appear to have battered the reputation of Brampton Mayor Susan Fennell, according to a new poll of the city's voters.
Despite Fennell’s recent insistence in council that “There is no scandal in Brampton” — a phrase she repeated three times — it appears nearly three-quarters (74 per cent) of those polled disagreed.
Some 72 per cent disapprove of the job Fennell is doing.
But the biggest problem facing the beleaguered mayor of Canada’s ninth largest city, according to the weekend poll by Forum Research, is her chances in the Oct.
27 election.
In a three-way race with fellow mayoral candidates Linda Jeffrey, a long-time Brampton MPP, and Councillor John Sanderson, Fennell is lagging way behind.
She would draw 18 per cent of the vote, compared with 39 per cent for Jeffrey and 26 per cent for Sanderson.
Recent revelations that Fennell and her staff charged $663,000 on their city-issued credit cards since 2007 for things such as LCBO purchases, luxury hotel stays, high-end restaurants, jewelry and first-class airfare (Fennell said some of the expenses were later reimbursed) has angered many voters.
Eighty per cent of respondents said they do not approve of city-issued credit cards being used for travel and entertainment expenses, and six in 10 blame Fennell alone for the recent spending scandals in Brampton.
A forensic audit is underway by Deloitte Canada, investigating spending by Fennell and the rest of council.
Sanderson’s call for an audit followed a series of media reports about spending by Fennell’s office starting last fall, based on documents obtained under freedom of information law.
Only 12 per cent of those surveyed said it’s acceptable to use city credit cards to cover travel and entertainment costs.
But Fennell refused to apologize for any of the spending racked up on plastic when councillors publicly demanded explanations two weeks ago.
Fennell said the luxury hotels at which she stayed on several occasions were not chosen by her; that a flight to Ottawa cost $1,850 because it was booked on a flight pass that would otherwise have expired (she flew to other Canadian cities at the same price); and that her $2 airport luggage rack charges were for other travellers in her group.
It was recently revealed that she secretly asked to not be paid for the last two months of 2013, which critics argued was an attempt to lose her politically costly 2012 status as Canada’s highest-paid mayor.
It's unclear if she has since received the salary payments that were stopped by the city treasurer on Fennell's confidential instruction.
Councillors are now awaiting the results of the ongoing forensic audit, expected to be finished by July.
