Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
A lawsuit alleges that this video showing Mayor Rob Ford in a drunken rant is about Scott MacIntyre, the former common-law spouse of the mayor’s sister Kathy.

  
    Rob Ford
  
  , the mayor of Canada’s largest city, has been caught on video in an impaired rant saying he is going to kill someone and “rip his f---ing throat out.”


  “I’m gonna kill that f---ing guy.
I’m telling you, it’s first-degree murder,” Ford rages as someone in the room secretly uses a cellphone to film the chief magistrate’s addled tirade.


  Moments after the Star published the video online, Ford emerged from his office and apologized.


  
    Mobile users can click here for the blog
  
.

  The target of the mayor’s anger in the video is not in the room and is not known to the Star.


  Wednesday, Ford’s chief of staff, Earl Provost, said he could not speak to the Star about the video.
“I am sorry I cannot talk to you about this,” Provost said.


  Also on Wednesday, the Star sent a transcript of the video, a description of the video’s contents and an offer to show it to the following people in the mayor’s circle: Ford, his brother Councillor Doug Ford, Provost, deputy chief of staff Sunny Petrujkic, spokesman Amin Massoudi, and Ford’s lawyer, Dennis Morris.


  The Star invited all of them to view the video, either at their office or the Star’s office, and provide an explanation for Ford’s behaviour.
No one took the Star up on its offer.


  Ford only commented on the video after it appeared on
  
    thestar.com.
  


  Last week, Police Chief Bill Blair announced that investigators had recovered two video clips relevant to extortion charges laid against the mayor’s “close friend” Alexander “Sandro” Lisi.
One of those videos is of the mayor smoking what appears to be crack, which two Star reporters viewed in May.


  There is no suggestion that this video is the second video Blair referred to in his press conference.


  In this profanity-laden, 77-second video, Ford is seen pacing about the dining room of a house, threatening death to an unnamed enemy.
A person off-camera, who is encouraging Ford’s behaviour, tells him to wait until “after the by-election,” an apparent reference to the by-election Ford wanted the city to hold to replace departed deputy mayor Doug Holyday.


  The reference to the by-election puts the timing of the video sometime in August.


  The need to replace Holyday on council came on Aug.
1, when he became an MPP.
City council voted on Aug.
26 to choose his successor by appointment instead of the $250,000 by-election Ford said was the more democratic choice.


  Similar to the crack video the Star witnessed in May, Ford’s words switch rapidly from being easily heard to incomprehensible.


  “I am a sick motherf---er, dude,” says Ford, rolling the cuffs of his collared shirt up to his elbow.
“Like no one’s gonna f--- around with me.”


  At points in the video, Ford is incoherent.
He appears to say that unidentified critics call him and his brothers “birds.”


  At another point, he angrily mutters what sounds like “This is f---ed, daddy.” However, the outburst also sounds like: “That little prick’s a racist f---, daddy.”


  In the video, Ford frenetically waves his arms and shifts from foot to foot.
He stumbles backwards and gently bumps into the dining room table, on which sits a large bottle of alcohol.
As he grows more agitated he slaps his stomach hard and appears to be discussing a plan to get “in the ring” with someone.
Ford and voices off-camera seem to debate how long he will need for the attack.
He wants 15 minutes.
A man off-camera says he will only have five minutes.


  The Star purchased the video for $5,000 from a source who filmed the video from someone else’s computer screen, and that person was connected to people who were in the room during Ford’s rant, the Star was told.


  Asked why the paper paid $5,000 for the video, Editor Michael Cooke said: “Because of the huge public interest both in Toronto and worldwide.


  “Publisher John Cruickshank and I talked about the price and quickly decided that the crisis at city hall made it essential to get all information relevant to Ford’s true character and views in front of Torontonians.


  “This was especially crucial as the mayor insisted he had nothing left to hide and has called us liars and maggots from the beginning, when we reported on two of our journalists seeing a video that showed a clearly intoxicated mayor smoking crack cocaine.


  “One of the mayor’s pals is accused of going to extraordinary lengths to find and suppress the crack video, while all the while he was denying its existence.
We feared if we didn’t grab it quick, this revealing video might disappear.”


  The Star has been assured the money went to “the legal and beneficial use of a family.”


  The Star was told that Ford arrived at a supporter’s home and was clearly impaired.
The Ford supporter was described to the Star as a businessman.
Four people between the age of 20 and 60 were present during Ford’s outbursts.
One made the video using a phone camera.
This man appears to have been sitting on a couch near where the mayor was pacing, in front of a dining room table covered with a white tablecloth and surrounded by six chairs.
Blinds are drawn and a chandelier lights the room.
It is nighttime.


  “No holds barred, brother.
He dies, or I die, brother,” Ford says at the start of the video.


  Again, a voice off-camera, as if in call-and-response, says, “Mike Tyson,” a reference to the former boxer.


  Ford, shoes off, struggles to focus his rant, moving around the room and flipping from an aside about his brothers to unintelligible gibberish and back again.


  The Randy section is largely incomprehensible.
Randy Ford is the eldest Ford brother.


  The video has two distinct cuts where it appears the person stopped filming then started again or edited together three short clips.
It is unknown what, if anything, Ford said in the period of time that was not filmed.


  “Brother, I just need to go f--king by myself in my f--king underwear,” he says, slapping his belly six times.
Near the end of the video, Ford tells his audience, “If I win, I will f--king donate,” before trailing off and leaving the thought unfinished.
It is not known what the mayor is referring to.


  Near the end of the video, Ford tells his audience, “If I win, I will f---ing donate,” before trailing off and leaving the thought unfinished.
It is not known what the mayor is referring to.


  The video emerges after seven days of revelations.
Last Thursday, Chief Bill Blair announced police had found the crack video, the one Star reporters viewed that shows Ford making homophobic and racist comments while smoking a crack pipe.
Brother Doug called for Blair to resign.
Then the mayor announced he had smoked crack cocaine, once, during a “drunken stupor.”


  This email is a request from the Toronto Star for you to view, tonight, a video we have obtained.


  We have in our possession a 1 minute 17 second video that shows Mayor Ford impaired, at a constituents house, threatening to kill someone.
It is somehow related to the byelection and we believe the video was made in August.
Mayor Ford is extremely aggressive.


  Please respond shortly and I will show you or your staff the video.

Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
Mayor Rob Ford’s latest spiral into substance abuse began on St.
Patrick’s Day weekend just over a month ago, with a party at an exclusive Toronto club that helped provide booze to the past two Ford Fests.
On March 15, the Saturday just before St.
Patrick’s Day, the mayor took four men he had met outside city hall back to his house, ordered a party bus, took them down to Muzik nightclub and proceeded to drink to excess, according to eyewitnesses to the evening.
Ford disappeared into the washroom at one point, and emerged close to an hour later appearing heavily impaired, babbling that his wife and children do not like him and “I am in over my head.”
People who were with Ford on March 15 and on a second night, in April, say they believed he was doing drugs.
On the April night, an eyewitness saw him doing lines of cocaine.
On March 15, an hour before he disappeared into a washroom at Muzik, Ford ran into pop star Justin Bieber in a common area of the exclusive nightclub near Toronto’s waterfront, according to witnesses.
Ford tried to shake Bieber’s hand and became enraged when Bieber jokingly asked him, “Did you bring any crack to smoke?”.
Security ushered Ford back to his party booth, where he was entertained, along with the four men, by three paid party hostesses.
The Star has been unable to reach Bieber for comment.
This March 15 event, which extended until 5 a.m
on March 16, is one of two wild nights Ford had at the night club in the past month.
According to three sources with knowledge of Ford’s visits to Muzik, owner Zlatko Starkovski has told staff at the club that “Rob Ford is our best customer.
His money is no good here.”
The Star’s ongoing investigation of Ford shows close ties with Starkovski, who is listed on the provincial liquor licence for the last two Ford Fests — giant parties for Ford supporters where free drinks and food are served.
Starkovski, and people who work for him, are listed as registered lobbyists in their attempts to contact city council members to seek improvements to the nightclub’s deal at Exhibition Place.
Alcohol and Gaming Commission catering forms obtained by the Star show that the liquor licences for both the July 5 and Sept.
20 Ford Fests were obtained by Starkovski, the president of Muzik Clubs Inc.
Starkovski is listed as the licence holder and provincial rules state the licence holder is responsible for the “sale and service of alcohol” at an event.
Councillor Doug Ford, the mayor’s brother, would not discuss the arrangement that saw Muzik catering to thousands of people at both Ford Fests, one on July 5, 2013, the other two months later on Sept.
20.
He said the most recent Ford Fests were a “private party” and that the Star should be “very, very careful” about what it writes.
He then hung up.
Ford’s March 15 night at Muzik began innocently enough, with the slightly tipsy mayor outside city hall around 10 p.m
Torontonians will recall that was the occasion when a youth recorded the mayor using foul language and getting into a taxi with four men.
It was unclear at the time if they were friends.
He had just met the men near the Nathan Phillips Square skating rink, according to two sources, and invited them back to his house, a 25-minute drive northwest to central Etobicoke.
Ford has a wife and two young children but it was not known if they were home at that time.
After getting to his house, Ford called a “party bus,” which came and drove them all back south and then east to the Ex grounds.
“MUZIK defies convention each and every Saturday.
With an unprecedented degree of luxury and service, MUZIK provides its guests with first-class treatment from the moment they arrive.
Guests who book suites will be escorted to their private booth by MUZIK’s hostesses and will then enjoy private premium bottle service as well as gourmet cuisine from the Muzik Dinner Club,” according to the description.
Ford and his new entourage showed up around midnight and were ushered into a private booth.
Three party hostesses were told to hand over their phones, according to sources with knowledge of the night.
The Star has been told by people familiar with Muzik that this is typical behaviour when Ford arrives.
Bieber was there that night, partying in a common area.
Ford left the booth to say hello and had a run-in with Bieber, who jokingly asked if Ford had any crack cocaine.
Angered, Ford blustered back to his private booth.
People familiar with his activities over the next five hours (at least two partygoers, a Canadian actress and a Bieber follower tweeted that Ford and Bieber were there but did not provide details) say that Ford drank to excess and at one point went to a private washroom.
He emerged 45 minutes later and was incoherent and rambling.
A cleaner at Muzik had to go into the bathroom and clean up vomit left after Ford exited.
Two sources told the Star that Ford returned to the table and kept drinking, staying at the club until 5 a.m.
A few weeks after this event, on April 5, Ford was at the Air Canada Centre, apparently drunk and belligerent, and was barred from an executive lounge.
He left and made his way to Muzik.
According to witnesses, Ford slipped into a closed-off part of the club with two females and another male.
He emerged an hour later disoriented and apparently high.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Mayor Rob Ford, left, receives gentle treatment from host Jimmy Kimmel during a March 3 appearance on the comedian's late-night talk show.
Back in Toronto two nights later, Ford hit the streets in his black Cadillac.
			

  Loaded behind the wheel of his Cadillac Escalade, high on his Jimmy Kimmel interview, Mayor
  
    Rob Ford
  
  is winding through the streets of his city.


  In the course of this March 5 night, Ford will bring together two of his closest felon friends, beating one and accepting drugs from another; go on a racist tirade; and boast that he often has sex with “girls” in front of his wife, according to an account of the evening.
He will suggest one man could have sex with her, a source has told the Star, recalling Ford’s words.


  The information for this story comes from interviews and from the Star’s review of audio tape that captures a portion of the evening.
The Star did not pay for the tape.
Ford could not be reached by the Star for comment, as has been the case since the Star began its investigation more than a year ago.
His lawyer Dennis Morris would not comment on the majority of the allegations in this story.


  (Ford is said to be in a rehab program seeking help for alcohol addiction.
The Star has heard that Ford has been spotted at three different rehabs in the past week, including CAMH in Toronto, Homewood in Guelph and Greenstone in Bala, about a 40-minute drive from the Ford family cottage.)


  Ford had taken a private jet to Los Angeles for the March 3 Kimmel show with brothers Doug and Randy.
Viewers were treated to Ford largely being mocked by the talk show host.


  What follows is an account from people present of Ford’s behaviour on a chilly but not freezing night soon after the mayor’s chartered jet returns him from Los Angeles to Toronto:
.

  Ford’s perpetually shiny Escalade is moving through icy streets with Ford at the wheel.
Ford is wasted; on what, is unclear.
It’s about 8 p.m.


  Beside him in the car is Bruno Bellissimo, Ford’s friend from high school.
Close by in the neighbourhood is Sandro Lisi.
In one of the many fascinating turns of the Ford story, these three men were back where they started a year previous, during the infamous Garrison Ball incident of Feb.
23, 2013.
On that night, Ford, Lisi and Bellissimo headed down to the military ball with Ford’s young children in the backseat.
His choice of companions then included Lisi, with a record of threatening to kill young women, and Bellissimo, a crack addict, who shortly after the ball beat up his mother and was convicted of assault and threatening death.
Ford was ejected from that year’s Garrison Ball for being impaired.


  Ford is behind the wheel and hammered.
One constituent he calls that night recalls Ford slurring his words.


  The Star has heard audio of Ford and Bellissimo talking and both are slurring.
(The Star has interviewed people who say it is nothing for Ford to down a 40-ouncer of vodka.
The man who recorded the audio of Ford at Sully Gorman’s bar two weeks ago told the Star Ford’s ability to drink shots of tequila is “incredible.”)


  Ford has two ways of communicating as he drives — his cellular phone and his Onstar device, a General Motors product that acts as a cellphone.
During one call as he drives that night, Ford is recorded as saying the following about Jews, blacks and Italians:
.

  “Nobody sticks up for people like I do, every f---ing k--e, n----r, f---ing w-p, d-go, whatever the race.
Nobody does.
I’m the most racist guy around.
I’m the mayor of Toronto.”


  On a roll, Ford continues to spew invective that may be the worst published yet.
At one point he makes a rude comment about his mother.


  His tirade is interrupted by a call from Dennis Morris, Ford’s lawyer.
Morris voices immediate concern that Ford is driving and tells him to pull over.
Ford does not respond kindly.
Morris suggests the police may be tailing him.


  (Asked this week if he recalled the incident and telephoning Ford, Morris said he believes his client was parked at the time.)


  Ford eventually pulls into a park near his home in Etobicoke, according to an account of the evening.
Lisi arrives, driving his black Range Rover.
(Lisi is facing drug trafficking and extortion charges in connection with an alleged attempt to retrieve the embarrassing crack video.
No accomplice has been charged.
The Star reported recently that at another late-night event, Ford
  
    pummelled Lisi
  
  , his friend, until Lisi cried.)


  According to an account of the evening, drugs are present as the men meet in the park.
An hour passes.
Ford and Bellissimo drive to Ford’s home, with Lisi in tow driving his Range Rover.
From here on, there is no known audio recording of the night.


  The front walkway to the Ford house leads to a modest front door.
At about 10 p.m
that night, Ford and his pals arrive.
Ford has a bag of McDonald’s food in his hand.
Ford jiggles the front door and then kicks the door open.
He, Lisi, Bellissimo and another man step in.


  For no apparent reason, Ford turns on Bellissimo and hits him squarely in the face twice — boom, boom — forgetting that he has a bagful of Big Macs in his hand.
Burgers and fries scatter.
Ford makes Bellissimo pick them up.


  Down the stairs they go.
Ford’s wife Renata is on the couch, a tired lounger that has been described to the Star by paramedics and firefighters who have attended calls at the house over the past two years.
Renata is smoking a joint.


  Enraged, Ford rummages for his Don Bosco coaching jacket.
“It’s where I keep my weed,” he tells people in the room.
Ford turns on his wife, screaming that she has taken his drugs.
Standing there quietly are Lisi and Bellissimo.


  Nobody speaks.
The comment is ignored by Ford’s wife.
Men in the room are shocked.


  “It’s okay,” Ford burbles.
“She lets me f--k girls in front of her all the time.”


  Eyes flicked upward, to the rest of the house.


  For the next two hours Ford never stops moving.
He paces the dingy room, back and forth.
Lisi says little, checking his phone from time to time.


  Ford drinks and smokes a joint.
He speaks Jamaican patois, reminiscent of his turn at the Steak Queen restaurant in January, another night when he was out in north Etobicoke with Lisi.


  Still popping back and forth, Ford invites people to punch him.
“I’m jacked,” Ford tells the men as he flexes his muscles.


  Somebody asks Ford how he got into the U.S., given his admission of smoking crack.


  “The customs guy who came on the plane, he recognized me!” Ford replies.


  The night continues.
Ford, who notoriously and allegedly grabbed the butt of a female political rival at the Canadian Jewish Political Affairs Committee Action Party in 2013, is one day away from that event again.


  “Aw s--t,” Ford says as the night wears on, his wife still sitting on the couch smoking.
“I have to go to that f---ing CJPAC s--t tomorrow night.”


  He attends the CJPAC event the next day.

Ranked ballot should just be the beginning: James.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Mayor Rob Ford told Newstalk 1010 last week that he “went and got professional, professional help at GreeneStone.” Sources told the Star that Ford's “destructive behaviour” at the drug and alcohol treatment facility in Muskoka resulted in him being kicked out of group therapy.
			
“Ford broke things, got into fights with other residents,” said one source with knowledge of the mayor’s time in rehab at the resort-turned-drug and alcohol rehabilitation facility in Muskoka.
GreeneStone’s wooded property has a well known “nature walk” and a concern of staff is that some residents meet their drug dealers or people providing alcohol at the far end of the walk.
Police were called at least once to deal with an incident at GreeneStone during Ford’s time.
It’s not known if the police visit was related to Ford.
The OPP, which patrols the area, said that any information about police calls to GreeneStone could only be obtained by making a freedom of information request, a process that takes months.
“I went and got professional, professional help at GreeneStone,” Ford told Newstalk 1010 host Jerry Agar last week.
“I believe it’s the best one in the world.
And they taught me exactly the problem it was with me.”
For this story, the Star has obtained accounts of Ford’s time in rehab from three people with knowledge of his time there, including a fellow patient, and from others, including a staffer, who provided accounts through an intermediary.
Due to concerns over publicly breaching the confidentiality of the treatment facility, the sources asked that their names not be published.
He would not talk about Ford, but in his email he said the program recognizes that “some individuals are not necessarily group ready.” Individual programs can be set up for those people, Leon said.
Leon explained his company follows the teachings of Harvard professor Dr.
Kenneth Minkoff.
Leon said GreeneStone has a “holistic and client-centred approach” that focuses on physical, emotional, intellectual, relational and spiritual needs.
Leon, who is also involved in real estate and is a member of the family that started the Leon Furniture chain, was acquitted in 1999 of cocaine trafficking, a case that began in 1991 with a charge in Canada of possessing eight kilograms of cocaine for the purpose of trafficking.
He was subsequently charged in the same case by American authorities in 1993 with trafficking five kilograms or more of cocaine.
Both cases took years to move through court and Leon was acquitted of all charges by 1999.
An American co-accused was convicted and died several years later in prison.
“I was falsely accused,” Leon said in an emailed statement to the Star.
Leon said he has no personal history of substance abuse.
GreeneStone, according to people with knowledge of the program, is not as strict as some other rehab facilities, but residents are still encouraged to follow rules, waking early, eating breakfast with the group in a common area, attending one of two small group sessions of 8-10 people, lunch, one-on-one counselling, a large group session, then dinner and an early bed time.
Residents (also called patients) live in resort-style cottages on the property.
Ford has said publicly he learned a lot from counsellors and his fellow patients at GreeneStone.
In an interview with the Toronto Sun at the start of his time in rehab, Ford also said rehab is like “football camp.”
“Rob Ford literally had the run of the place.
There were no rules around Rob Ford,” said another source.
In the hallways and common areas, Ford argued, pushed and shoved other patients who were angry that Ford had “brought his circus with him,” sources said.
During the morning group sessions, where residents are encouraged to share their deepest secrets, Ford was abusive to other residents, shouting them down, refusing to listen, swearing constantly, sources told the Star.
By the halfway mark of the two months, his small therapy group had had enough and Ford was told to leave the small group.
A private counsellor was asked to do one-on-one therapy with Ford.
One person who was in rehab with Ford, and was kicked out for her behaviour, was LeeAnne McRobb , the woman who was later arrested for drunk driving after being pulled over in Ford’s Escalade.
In an interview, McRobb, 36, said she was kicked out for “bad choices,” including that she loaned her car to “someone” at the rehab facility.
McRobb confirmed that Ford did give her the keys to his Cadillac Escalade after they met in rehab.
The mayor also confirmed this last week in an interview with CBC.
“He gave me the permission,” McRobb said, but would not say why the mayor lent her his car or how she got to Toronto to pick up the Escalade.
McRobb told the Star she picked up the Mayor’s black SUV from an auto body shop in Etobicoke.
She said it was six days after Ford gave her the keys that she was arrested for impaired driving by the OPP just kilometres from GreeneStone.
She is still facing those charges .
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
The unprecedented Rob Ford era ended Friday as dramatically as it unfolded: Ford, the mayor whose scandals roiled city hall and captured global attention, withdrew from the mayoral election because of his abdominal tumour — and asked Toronto to vote for his brother, Councillor Doug Ford, who scrambled to register as a candidate just minutes before the deadline.
The mayor signed up to run for his old Ward 2 council seat in the riding of Etobicoke North, taking the place of his nephew, Michael Ford, who withdrew from that race to run for school trustee.
“Nobody has ever seen anything like this before,” said former mayor Mel Lastman, summarizing the reaction of residents and insiders alike.
“It's nuts.”
Rob Ford's departure from the Oct.
27 mayoral election significantly changes a campaign that unsuccessful candidate David Soknacki this week described as a “referendum on Rob Ford.” If that is true, the ballot question is no longer on the ballot — though he has been replaced by a politician who may be even more polarizing and outspoken
Doug Ford was sombre and emotional in his first speech as a candidate.
Standing in front of his mother's Etobicoke house, his daughters, wife and mother behind him, he positioned himself as the inheritor of his ailing brother's legacy.
“He told me that he needed me to take the torch while he focuses on getting better,” Doug Ford said.
“He told me that he couldn't bear the thought of city hall returning to the old days at the expense of the good, honest, everyday people.”
The other two leading candidates, John Tory and Olivia Chow, differed starkly in their responses to the news.
Chow declined to talk about Doug Ford, choosing to simply wish Rob Ford well.
Tory immediately went on the attack, noting Doug Ford's insults about fellow councillors, the father of a man with autism and Premier Kathleen Wynne.
“I don't think Doug Ford offers Toronto more of the same.
In fact, he may offer Toronto something that is worse,” Tory said.
The brothers have a complicated and sometimes acrimonious relationship that involves a rivalry they have barely concealed even while describing themselves as best friends and strenuously defending each other.
Former Citytv reporter Andrew Krystal said Doug Ford told him Friday morning that he had been trying to convince Rob Ford to drop out of the race to focus on his health — but the hospitalized mayor was hesitant.
“I think it was made very quickly, on a last-minute basis,” Etobicoke Councillor Peter Leon said of the Fords' decision.
The switch involved a mad dash to and from Mount Sinai Hospital.
Rob Ford had signed the necessary paperwork, but it turned out that Leon, the person hastily recruited as a notary, needed to be physically present while Ford signed.
Leon, a Ford aide and two lawyers drove back to the hospital and “ran in,” Leon said.
Doug Ford faces a difficult road to victory.
Rob Ford was in a distant second place in the last two polls, 12 percentage points behind Tory.
Doug Ford has consistently been less popular than Rob Ford.
As he takes on two well-funded, well-organized rivals who have been on the trail for six months, he must now rapidly raise his own money: he cannot use any of the donations made to Rob Ford.
Doug Ford, president of family firm Deco Labels and Tags, is both similar to and different from Rob, for whom he served as campaign manager.
Doug Ford is also a fiery, folksy, gaffe-prone, oft-dishonest populist conservative who favours subways and small government.
He, too, rails against “lefties” and the “gravy train.” 
The first-time officeholder does not have the personal touch of his younger brother, who spent a decade establishing a reputation for returning constituents' phone calls.
Nor does he have the drug-related baggage — though the Globe and Mail reported that he was a hashish dealer in the 1980s, which he has strongly denied.
He is more prone than Rob Ford to public displays of anger.
He has stronger business credentials than Rob Ford but less experience in government.
He has more interest in the macro-level work of a traditional mayor than the one-on-one fixing his brother favours.
Former Rob Ford aide David Price, a close friend of Doug Ford, said in 2013 that the strategic efforts of the mayor's office were “all Doug Ford.”
Rob Ford had to make his momentous decision Friday without knowing the exact nature of his illness.
Dr.
Zane Cohen of Mount Sinai told reporters Thursday that Ford has a mass of a “fair size” in his abdomen.
The results of a biopsy will not be available to Ford for a week, he said.
It could be serious: the Ford family appeared dejected on Friday night, and Doug Ford told the Toronto Sun in the morning that the mayor could be facing “a surgery and chemotherapy, and could be on his back for six to eight weeks.”
There were persistent rumours in 2012 and 2013 that Doug Ford would run in a byelection or election in the event of a Rob Ford crisis that rendered him unable to run or to compete.
Lastman said he was told of a possible switcheroo weeks ago; former Rob Ford chief of staff Nick Kouvalis, now a senior Tory aide, predicted it on Twitter in mid-July.

  Below is the statment issued by Rob Ford today.

But Doug Ford had been openly gleeful about the prospect of leaving city hall and returning to his company's U.S
operation in Chicago; he has always expressed more interest in provincial politics than the mayoralty.“I'll be running away from this place in 16 months,” he said in June 2013
On Friday, asked if the switch had been in the works before this week, he said, “It was never in the works.”
Rob Ford will remain the mayor until the new mayor is confirmed on Dec.
1.
He did not speak publicly on Friday.
“While I'm unable to commit to the heavy schedule required for a mayoral candidate I will not turn my back on Ward 2,” he said in an email statement.“I've asked Doug to finish what we started together, so that all we've accomplished isn't washed away
I have asked Doug to run to become the next mayor of Toronto, because we need him.
We cannot go backwards.”
Andray Domise, the Ward 2 candidate who now finds himself running for council against an incumbent mayor, questioned whether his new opponent can run an election campaign from a hospital bed.
But Ford is an overwhelming favourite in the ward he held between 2000 and 2010 even if he cannot campaign at all.
Mayoral candidates John Tory and Olivia Chow reacted to news Rob Ford had quit the race and his brother Doug Ford had replaced him.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford is hospitalized with a tumour after complaining of abdominal pains for at least three months, according to the president of Humber River Hospital.

				Councillor Doug Ford after the press conference, September 10, 2014.
			
Rob Ford’s future in the mayoral race is again in question after he was admitted to hospital with an abdominal tumour on Wednesday.
A CT scan revealed it is in his abdomen, but a biopsy is still needed to determine the type of tumour — which Devlin said is “not small” — and whether it is malignant.
Ford went to the hospital’s Church St.
site in North York under his own power before being admitted.
It is not clear how long he will remain there.
Devlin said he hopes their examinations will be done by the week’s end.
Ford was complaining of “left, lower quadrant abdominal pain” for three months before the pain became “unbearable” Wednesday morning, Devlin said.
Ford’s brother and campaign manager, Councillor Doug Ford, refused to speak about the state of the campaign — saying he would speak on that Thursday.
He did not answer when asked if he would consider taking his brother’s place in the race.
“I have no comment,” said a subdued Doug Ford in a small meeting room at the hospital in front of a crowd of reporters.
“He’s in good spirits.”
The deadline for the mayor to withdraw from the mayoral ballot, or for his brother or anyone else to join it, is Friday at 2 p.m
In the past, the Fords have privately mused about Doug Ford taking Rob Ford’s place on the ballot if the mayor could not run.
Doug Ford’s poll numbers have historically been lower than his brother’s.
My thoughts are with Mayor Ford, Renata, their children and the entire Ford family this evening.
Get well soon.
The Ford brothers were eating breakfast together Wednesday morning at Perkins restaurant in Etobicoke when the mayor complained about stomach pains, said Doug, the elder Ford.
At the hospital, several security guards blocked access to hallways and were being instructed not to allow anyone upstairs.
In 2009, while Ford was still a city councillor, doctors removed a tumour from his appendix, an experience he described as one of his toughest moments in an interview with CTV.
Devlin could not comment on whether there was any connection between the two tumours.
My thoughts and hopes are with @TOMayorFord and his family for good news in the days ahead.
Olivia Chow held an impromptu press conference in her living room to address the health of her campaign rival.
Chow’s late husband, former leader of the federal NDP Jack Layton, died of cancer in 2011.
John Tory, the frontrunner to replace Ford in the Oct.
27 vote, released a statement in response to the news.
“My thoughts are with Mayor Ford, Renata, their children and the entire Ford family this evening,” it reads.
“While you may see us debating, we are also human beings.
Rob Ford is a husband, father, son and brother and I want to see him back in good health as soon as possible and back where he would want to be — with us at the debating tables talking about the city we all love.”
Messages of support for the mayor also began streaming in via social media Wednesday night.
Deputy Mayor Norm Kelly took to Twitter: “This evening I would like to wish Mayor Ford well and that he has a quick and healthy recovery in the days ahead.”
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  The mayor has a malignant liposarcoma, a “very rare and a very difficult tumour,” said Dr.
Zane Cohen, the renowned colorectal surgeon in charge of the mayor’s medical team at Mt.
Sinai Hospital.


  A week after news that a tumour was discovered in Ford’s abdomen, Cohen said Wednesday the cancer has spread.
A second, smaller tumour was discovered in the mayor’s buttocks, behind his left hip.


  “It’s fairly aggressive, but we are treating this very aggressively in order to eradicate the tumour,” the doctor told reporters in a packed meeting room across from the hospital’s main campus.
“It comprises about 1 per cent only of all cancers.”


  Cohen said a second biopsy done on Monday, after the first biopsy proved inconclusive, revealed the cancer.
Ford and his family learned the news in the last 72 hours.


  Cohen said they are “optimistic” about treating this particular type of cancer — pleomorphic liposarcoma — and that it is the most “sensitive” to chemotherapy.


  In the next 48 hours, Ford will begin two rounds of chemotherapy, each to last three days followed by 18 days of a “washout” period.
After doctors examine the tumour again, they will decide whether more chemotherapy is needed or if surgery is required, Cohen said.


  The mayor may be able to continue working — and campaigning, now that he has put his name into the councillor race for his old seat in Ward 2 (Etobicoke North).


  Cohen also said Mt.
Sinai is one of the largest of Ontario’s three sarcoma centres and houses sarcoma treatment and research experts.


  Doug Ford replaced his younger brother on the
  
    mayoral
  
  ballot last week, just days after the tumour was first discovered.


  
    Ford
  
  , 45, has two children under the age of 10.


  His cancer diagnosis now leaves some uncertainty in the Ward 2 race.
Though early polls indicated Ford could easily win his old seat from a hospital bed, he faces several competent competitors — including businessman Andray Domise, a realtor and a Toronto Community Housing board member.


  Ford took the place of his 20-something nephew Michael Ford on the Ward 2 ballot after stepping back from the mayor’s race.

Toronto Mayor Rob Ford has been diagnosed with malignant liposarcoma, a rare type of cancer.
Dr.
Zane Cohen provided the health update and said the mayor will undergo chemotherapy.

  “I could be facing a battle of my lifetime, and I want the people of Toronto to know that I intend to face this challenge head on, and win,” he said in his statement last week.


  A political source told the Star that Rob Ford’s switch from the mayoral race to one for a councillor seat was meant to give Ford something to fight for as he faces this health crisis.


  Ford earlier told the Sun his lungs were biopsied this week, which Cohen said is incorrect.


  “The most important thing, most important thing, is your health,” Ford said in a speech at the wedding of assistant Jerry Agyemang in August.
“Friends, you can have everything in the world.
If you haven’t got your health you don’t have very much.”


  Behind-the-scenes this week, political insiders and those close to Ford quietly struggled with the cancer news.


  “It's the worst possible scenario,” a source close to the mayor told the Star on Tuesday.


  A somber procession of Ford’s mother, brothers, wife and nephew have been streaming in and out of the hospital daily since he was admitted to Mt.
Sinai last week.


  “We have a lot of faith in the doctors and we have a lot of faith in God,” Ford’s wife Renata said a few hours before the press conference on Wednesday.


  The news of Ford’s condition has also created a dilemma for mayoral candidates, who once faced off against Ford and have yet to meet brother Doug Ford on the campaign trail.


  A debate planned by the real estate industry Wednesday evening was postponed in a joint decision by candidates John Tory, Olivia Chow and organizers.


  Both Chow and Tory spoke just outside city hall following the announcement on Ford’s condition.


  “I think in the end here today we’re thinking about the Ford family,” Tory said.
“It’s not the day to analyze all these things, it’s rather a day to express our concern and express a thought and .
.
.
solidarity.”


  At Queen’s Park, Premier Kathleen Wynne joined the chorus of well wishes for the ailing mayor.


  “My sincere hope is that Mayor Ford can beat this and my thoughts are with him and his family.
I know he’s been receiving a great number of good wishes,” Wynne said in a statement.
“Those thoughtful words — along with the care of the team at Mount Sinai — are sure to help set him on the road to restored health.”


  Deputy Mayor
  
    Norm Kelly
  
  , who has assumed most of the mayor’s powers since Ford was stripped of them last year, also sent words of encouragement.


  “Those who know Rob, know that he never backs down from a tough fight.
Like every challenges he takes on, I know he will fight until he wins,” Kelly said.
“I encourage all Torontonians to wish Rob well as he faces this challenge in the days and weeks ahead.”


  Ford remains the mayor until Dec.
1, when a mayor-elect takes over the office.

Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
Mayor Rob Ford has admitted using crack cocaine.
He made the revelation to reporters at City Hall.

  “Yes, I have smoked crack cocaine,” Ford told reporters outside his office.
“But no, do I, am I an addict? No.
Have I tried it? Probably in one of my drunken stupors, probably approximately about a year ago.
I answered your question.
You ask the question properly, I’ll answer it.
Yes, I’ve made mistakes.
All I can do now is apologize and move on.”


  Ford, who will be making a further “announcement”this afternoon, said he did not know the exact circumstances of his crack use.


  “I don’t even remember,” he said.
“Some of the stuff that you guys have seen me, the state I’ve been in? It’s a problem.”


  Ford’s bombshell concession may end his political career.
He said in May that he does not smoke crack — using the present tense — but steadfastly refused to answer when asked repeatedly if he had ever smoked crack or done so while in office.


  “I wasn’t lying.
You didn’t ask the correct questions,” he said.
“No, I’m not an addict and no I do not do drugs.
I made mistakes in the past and all I can do is apologize but it is what it is.
And I can’t change the past and I can apologize to my family, my friends, my colleagues and the people of this great city.”


  In fact, Ford was asked repeatedly whether he has ever smoked crack.
He dodged the question as recently as yesterday morning, saying simply that he is not an addict.


  “You ask the question properly, I’ll answer it,” Ford said Tuesday.
“Yes, I’ve made mistakes.
All I can do now is apologize and move on.”


  “I feel like I got 1,000 pounds off my back,” Ford told the Toronto Sun’s Joe Warmington.
"I felt I had to say it.
It is what is.
I feel two inches high right now but I needed to deal with it.
I am not going to quit or take a leave."


  It is not yet clear, though, whether he will be able to “ride the storm out,” as he pledged Sunday.
Nobody can force him out — Toronto’s council has no impeachment power, and the provincial government does not want to intervene — but he will not be able to function without the support of aides allies who are now reeling.
Ford’s staff had no idea he planned to make the admission.


  And it came mere hours after his brother, Councillor Doug Ford, launched an unprecedented attack on the police chief, Bill Blair, whom he urged to take a leave of absence over “bias” against the mayor and whom he accused of attempting to “put a political bullet right between the mayor’s eyes.” Doug Ford, in fact, held a news conference attacking Blair about an hour before his brother emerged from a city hall elevator and made his comments.


  The police will not comment on the mayor’s admission, a spokesperson said.


  Councillors began to take action against Ford even before the admission.
Councillor Denzil Minnan-Wong, the chair of the public works committee and a conservative ally, put forth a strongly-worded motion asking Ford to apologize for “misleading” council about the video and take a leave of absence.


  “We as a Council believe the mayor’s conduct is unacceptable and must stop.
He is hurting himself.
He is hurting the City of Toronto,” Minnan-Wong said in the motion, which was seconded by another member of the executive, Councillor Peter Milczyn.


  The scandal began in May, when two Star reporters and the editor of the U.S
website Gawker revealed that they had seen a clear video of Mayor Ford smoking what appeared to be crack from a glass pipe, calling Liberal Leader Justin Trudeau a “fag” and his high school football players “f------ minorities.”


  Ford denied until this week that the video existed.
“There’s no video,” he said on his radio show in May.


  Ford’s friend Alexander “Sandro” Lisi has been charged with extortion related to alleged “threats” made to recover the video.
Ford said again Monday that he wants Blair to release the video.


  “I want everyone in the city to see this tape,” he said.
“I’d like to see this tape.
I don’t even recall there being a tape or a video and I know that, so I want to see the state that I was in.
I don’t know what else I can say.”


  Ford’s comments have varied dramatically over the last three days.
On Sunday, he “sincerely” apologized to residents, but only for past public drunkenness.
On Monday, he went on the offensive, daring his allies to resign from key posts and saying he could run the city by himself.


  In the manner of a schoolteacher, he asked temporarily befuddled reporters Tuesday to prompt his admission by re-asking the questions about his cocaine use that they asked in May.

Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Mayor Rob Ford and the Don Bosco Eagles during the 2011 Metro Bowl semi-final.
			
Mayor Rob Ford made his high school football players “roll in goose scat,” threatened to beat up a teacher, showed up intoxicated to the final practice before the Metro Bowl, ignored requests to complete criminal background checks, stuck the school with a $5,000 tab for helmets he promised to pay for, and held an improper summer practice at which a player broke his collarbone, according to internal documents from the Catholic school board.
The documents, obtained by the Star on Wednesday after a 15-month freedom of information battle, show that the board’s problems with Ford went far beyond the comments he made in a Sun News interview last February, which the board had identified as the sole reason for his dismissal three months later.
The mayor did not respond to questions posed to him at city hall.
His campaign manager, Councillor Doug Ford, did not respond to a request to respond to the board spokesman’s allegation, in one of the documents, that he himself directed a “racial slur” toward then-director of education Bruce Rodrigues and a threat toward Don Bosco Catholic Secondary School principal Ugo Rossi shortly before the mayor’s termination.
“I don’t give two craps,” Doug Ford said when asked about the allegations about the mayor.
“You guys are the most biased media in the country.
Bar none.”
Ford’s decade-long tenure as Don Bosco’s coach remains central to his attempts to portray himself as a penny-pinching conservative with a heart of gold.
On the “About Rob” section of his campaign website, four of the six sentences are related to football.
He has cited his coaching experience to defend himself against accusations of racism and to argue that he is more caring than the critics who say his policies hurt the poor.
Most of the allegations in the documents were made by Rossi, now the principal at Father Henry Carr, and John Royiwsky, the teacher-coach who led the team to the championship in Ford’s absence this past season.
At the board’s request, the two men compiled a list of “critical incidents involving Mayor Ford.”
The first alleged incident occurred on Aug.
28, 2012.
Ford, according to Rossi, scheduled a practice for that day, before the school year began — a violation of rules set by the school and the provincial athletic association.
Royiwsky, Rossi said, went to Don Bosco and posted a memo on the change room doors to inform the arriving players that “there would be no practices.” Ford then confronted him, the documents say.
“The mayor was very heated and swearing at and challenging Mr.
Royiwsky to a fight,” Rossi said, in comments paraphrased by the board.
“He kept repeating ‘I will kick your ass, F you, you’re a p---y.
I run this program not you.’ I pulled John away and asked the mayor to leave the area.”
Ford, Rossi said, claimed that he was merely having the players do running to improve their conditioning.
But a tackling sled was visible in news clips of the practices — and the very next day after the Royiwsky confrontation, one player broke his collarbone and “several other students also sustained minor injuries,” Rossi wrote in a formal letter to Ford on Aug.
31, 2012, according to the documents.
“These events have put me as principal and the TCDSB in a very vulnerable and compromising position as it pertains to liability.
The students were not given media release forms nor did they have medical and permission forms signed by parents/guardians allowing them to partake in school activities,” Rossi wrote.
He threatened to fire Ford if the mayor broke the rules again.
He also reminded Ford that all coaches require a police background check.
In the incident list, though, he said Ford “disregarded” his requests for police checks until he was forced to “threaten to halt practice and instruct a mayor staff member to rush paperwork through the Chief of Police,” the documents say.
“Mr.
Rossi kept hounding him,” board spokesman John Yan said Wednesday, “and the mayor kept brushing Mr.
Rossi aside.”
A letter signed by Chief Bill Blair, informing Ford that he had passed the check, was sent to the mayor’s Etobicoke home on Sept.
13, the documents say.
Police spokesman Mark Pugash said he could not immediately comment on the letter, whether the request was rushed, or if it is standard for Blair to sign background-check letters.
It is not known why Ford allegedly dallied in getting the checks done.
But one of his hand-picked assistant coaches, Payman Aboodowleh, has criminal convictions for violent offences.
Aboodowleh was not flagged even when the checks were completed — because he provided a misspelled version of his name, according to the board.
Don Bosco custodians shut down the school at 4 p.m
during the summer.
Rossi said Ford refused to leave in time during the week of improper practices — and offered “cash money” to the custodians to keep the building open an extra hour, the documents say.
The most sensational allegation contained in the documents came from Royiwsky, who told the board that Ford “made the players roll in goose scat” and “called them ----suckers” after an Oct.
2012 game against Father Henry Carr secondary school.
Yan said Ford “wasn’t happy with the performance or the level of intensity.”
Sergio Meza, Don Bosco’s kicker that season, disputed the claim that Ford had forced the players to roll in the droppings that regularly littered the field.
He said Ford had given them a choice between running — a common punishment from football coaches — and rolling in the grass.
They picked rolling, he said.
Meza also said the excrement incident did not happen after the Carr game.
And he said Ford never called the players ----suckers or other profane words.
Ford has acknowledged that he struggled with alcoholism and drug addiction during his mayoralty.
Yan said Ford showed up intoxicated at football events only once — the day before the Metro Bowl championship at the Rogers Centre, the crowning achievement of his tenure.
The Nov.
26, 2012 practice began less than eight hours after a judge kicked Ford out of office over a violation of conflict of interest law.
Ford later won the case on appeal.
“The mayor shows up late and visibly inebriated at the final practice the evening before the Metro Bowl championship game after being absent from city hall in the aftermath of the judge’s conflict of interest decision against him,” Rossi said, according to the documents.
“During the post-practice meeting with coaches and organizers the mayor is incoherent and pushes to have the players sequestered with him the entire afternoon in a room at city hall…this would have thrust the students into the middle of the media frenzy.”
Royiwsky and Yan said Ford had promised to pay for 25 football helmets and then, after the purchase, declared that he had contributed enough money to the program, the documents.
The board ended up paying close to $5,000.
Royiwsky and Yan also said Ford reneged on his promise to cover the entire cost of an initially unsanctioned overnight trip to Peterborough.
School funds, they said, were used to cover a $300 deficit.
Ford’s comments in a lengthy Sun News interview were the last straw for Rossi and Don Bosco’s teachers.
Ford said many of the players “come from gangs,” live in “broken homes,” and can only be persuaded to go to class if football is used as a “carrot.” Don Bosco, he said, is a “tough school” in a “tough area.”
Upon watching the interview, Rossi fired off an emotional email to the local trustee and superintendent, the documents say.
“As you are all aware we are in the midst of doing everything humanly possible to attract students.
This negative commentary about the school and the community by the mayor is reckless and problematic.
I am extremely infuriated by this video.
I am a very patient Catholic but this is enough,” Rossi wrote.
“This is our Bosco, these are our students, they deserve better.
I apologize for my rant but the mayor is going to have an extremely courageous and direct conversation with me.”
Ford offered to speak directly to Don Bosco teachers.
According to an April email from Rossi, they voted 41-3 against meeting with the mayor.
Rossi also rejected a request from an assistant to Ford, Chris Fickel, for the mayor to take the team out to Pizza Pizza during the board’s review of his status.
Rodrigues eventually sent Ford a formal request not to show up at the school and not to talk to players, the documents say.
Ford was not only dismissed from his role at Don Bosco but banned from coaching at any of Toronto’s Catholic schools.
The documents suggest Rodrigues had offered Ford a chance to resign: the board prepared two press releases, one announcing his resignation and one announcing his termination.
Asked why the board did not terminate Ford earlier, Yan said the events described by Rossi and Royiwsky were “isolated incidents” not brought to attention of senior board officials until the board launched its formal review after the Sun interview.
“A lot of these instances would have happened in isolation,” he said.
“You’re reading it as a series of events.
As they happened, they would have happened in isolation.
The only reason we know about them and brought them together is because we did the review.”
He added: “You have to remember you’re dealing with the mayor of the fourth-largest jurisdiction in North America.
Number two, he had been a volunteer coach for over a decade at the same school.
And so, in any environment, whether it’s public or private, there is a process.”
The school board rejected the Star's freedom of information request in June of last year, arguing that Ford, a volunteer, was a "quasi" employee.
The Star appealed to the provincial Information and Privacy Commissioner and won.
Ford then registered an appeal of that decision, in April.
But he didn't make any arguments, and the commissioner closed the file in August.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Mayor Rob Ford, during a surprise news conference at his Etobicoke campaign headquarters, mentioned that jobs, not transit, is the No.
1 issue, adding that people without jobs don't need transit.
			
As he attempted to reframe the debate over the city’s top priorities, Rob Ford tried to shift transit out of the spotlight Tuesday by saying those who don’t have jobs don’t need it anyway.
“Every day people come to me and say, ‘Rob, what’s the No.
1 issue?’ And I say, ‘It’s the economy.
It’s jobs.
It’s property taxes.
It’s transit.’ But folks, it’s the economy and jobs
Because if you haven’t got a job, you won’t need transit,” Ford said during a news conference at his Etobicoke campaign headquarters.
“If you cannot leave your house to go to or look for a job, what’s the sense of having transit?” .
The news conference, announced less than two hours before it was held, appeared to be a platform for Ford to try to change the focus of the debate in the mayor’s race away from transit, which has largely dominated the campaign so far.
John Tory, who continues to tout his SmartTrack above-ground rail plan as his platform’s showpiece, has been leading in the polls recently.
And the other top candidates have sparred over items like building LRTs versus subways and when and how to build a downtown relief line.
“When people ask this question, my opponents have very little to say,” said Ford Tuesday.
“They have very little to say when it comes to the economy and how they’re going to find efficiencies and keep your taxes low.
They want to talk about transit.”
The thousands of nonemployed people — among them seniors, students and the disabled — who use transit every day to get around went unmentioned in Ford’s remarks.
“In an age-friendly city, everybody needs transit,” said Adina Lebo, the chapter chair for the senior advocacy group CARP, afterwards.
“You don’t use transit just to go to work.
You use transit to stay involved in life and to take part in activities that the city has to offer.”
Rajean Hoilett, president of the Ryerson Students’ Union said transit is a priority issue at his school where they represent 30,000 students, many who are commuters.
“I think it is surprising because on a campus like Ryerson .
.
.
when we’re talking to students often one of the biggest concerns (after the high costs of tuition) is transit,” Hoilett said.
“Students need transit to continue being able to access education.”
One of the mayor’s rivals, Karen Stintz, tweeted: “Today @TOMayorFord suggested transit is not a top priority for Torontonians.
Is he serious?!”.
Tory’s campaign tweeted Ford was “off the rails” on transit.
“Rob Ford doesn’t understand the basic fact that if you provide transit citywide, people will have the opportunity to get to the jobs they need,” said Tory spokesperson Amanda Galbraith in an email.
Ford insists jobs are “the No.
1 issue” in the campaign but has yet to provide any details on how to combat Toronto’s unemployment rate, which has climbed during his time as mayor.
Ford has also not released any specific economic policies during the campaign.
His four top opponents have all released proposals.
He said he would like to see additional subway lines on Sheppard and Finch but provided no explanation of how the city would finance them — though he said the federal and provincial governments would need to pitch in.
Ford also called the much-talked-about downtown relief line a “done deal.”
There are no plans or agreements made regarding a downtown relief line, which is currently being studied by the Toronto Transit Commission.
What form or route it could take has been a topic of debate by mayoral candidates since the election began.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  
    Mayor Rob Ford
  
  was off the wagon at an Etobicoke steak joint this week, impaired and rambling, associating with accused video extortionist Alexander “Sandro” Lisi and hurling profane, expletive-laden insults at Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair.


  Ford is incoherent during portions of the video.
In other parts he clearly uses Jamaican expletives that members of the
  
    local community say are “highly offensive”
  
  to women.


  The video was posted to YouTube on Tuesday afternoon.
Two men tried to sell it to the Star and other media for $7,500 earlier in the day.
The men told a Star reporter the late-night antics of the mayor at Steak Queen in Rexdale was evidence Ford still hung out with Lisi; that Ford was not true to his claim of having stopped drinking; and that he had driven intoxicated to the restaurant.


  Ford
  
    admitted Tuesday to drinking
  
  but denied driving to the Steak Queen.
He did not say how he got to the fast food steak restaurant.
A witness to the night’s activities told the Star Ford’s black Cadillac Escalade was parked out front.


  Lisi is important to the story because he is the Ford friend who faces charges of extortion for aggressive attempts to retrieve the
  
    original crack cocaine video
  
  (showing Ford smoking crack and making racist and homophobic remarks).
Lisi has a previous conviction for threatening to kill a woman and also currently faces drug charges as part of the ongoing Project Brazen 2, a probe of the mayor by top Toronto detectives.
Lisi’s bail conditions do not prevent him from seeing Ford, though in Lisi’s upcoming criminal case the mayor may be called to testify.


  In another section of the new video Ford brags that during the police investigation he ran “counter-surveillance” on the undercover detectives that were watching him.


  In a second video released Tuesday, Lisi, wearing a Canada Goose winter coat, is seen chatting with Ford at the Steak Queen the same evening.
During Ford’s drunken rant later in the evening, Lisi is off camera.


  Someone answered Lisi’s cellphone when the Star called for comment Tuesday afternoon, appeared to listen to the reporter, then hung up.
Lisi’s lawyer, Seth Weinstein, said he could not comment on questions about Lisi and Ford because the matter is before the courts and Lisi “is not a public figure and will not be drawn into discussing his personal life.”


  Extensive police surveillance of Ford and Lisi last summer revealed the two meeting each other frequently and exchanging packages, text messages and phone calls, often during business hours.
Police allege Lisi tried to retrieve the crack video but have not named a person, if one exists, who asked him to do so.


  Toronto and the world had a Christmas break from the Ford saga after Toronto’s top politician, stripped by council of his powers, went on an exercise kick and publicly vowed he was done with substance abuse.


  As recently as early last week, Ford was continuing to maintain that his drinking days were over.
On Jan.
13, after a well tweeted visit to Muzik nightclub, a reporter asked the mayor if he’d been drinking and Ford responded angrily: “You know what, I’m not even gonna answer that question.
Were you drinking this weekend? Were you drinking this weekend? Well then? No I wasn’t drinking.
I don’t drink.”


  In November, after admitting to smoking crack cocaine, Ford told several news outlets he was done drinking.
“Finished” was what he said to the CBC’s Peter Mansbridge.
To CP24’s Stephen LeDrew, Ford said he was “100 per cent” done with alcohol.
The host pressed him: “So you have no personal issues? The people of Toronto aren’t going to see you in a state of inebriation?” Ford told both outlets he’d had a “come to Jesus moment.”


  When the Steak Queen video surfaced, Ford’s brother Doug, a councillor, quickly suggested it was from earlier days.
Soon after, Mayor Ford admitted the video was current but he had an explanation for the event.


  In the video, Ford stands with his back to the counter and speaks to someone off camera.
Ford clicks his tongue and sucks his teeth and uses Jamaican expletives.


  A prominent member of the Jamaican-Canadian community, Donette Chin-Loy, told the Star’s Royson James the words are “offensive to women.” In brief comments to reporters Tuesday Ford said his remarks were not “discriminative.”


  One former supporter of Ford’s, Councillor Denzil Minnan-Wong, said “there’s a profound disappointment and sadness that it looks like he’s fallen off the wagon.”


  Councillors, he said, had been rooting for Ford to succeed.
He said they believe Ford should seek the “appropriate help” he needs.


  Councillor Michael Thompson, who is the only black member of council and is of Jamaican descent, said he found Ford’s behaviour “offensive.” He said Tuesday was a “real sad day.”


  Thompson was a staunch Ford ally for much of the term.
On Tuesday, he said Ford is not “fit” to continue in office.


  Deputy Mayor Norm Kelly said the video is further proof Ford needs “professional help.” He said Ford’s lack of public “self-control” puts the reputation of the city at risk.

A lawsuit alleges that this video showing Mayor Rob Ford in a drunken rant is about Scott MacIntyre, the former common-law spouse of the mayor’s sister Kathy.

  The Steak Queen is east of Highway 427 and south of Finch Ave.
W.
Ford and Lisi have been there before, according to information the Star gathered over the past year.


  According to the people who recorded the video, Ford made disparaging comments off camera at the restaurant about Toronto city councillors, along with his recorded verbal attack on Chief Blair.
The man who recorded one of the two videos known to have been taken early Tuesday morning said Ford grew more animated and sounded more impaired as his time at the Steak Queen wore on.
The Star was also approached Tuesday by a man who saw and videotaped Ford at a local Tim Hortons at 11 p.m., before the Steak Queen visit
The man said Ford was incoherent and rambling at that location as well.


  The Steak Queen did a brisk business after news surfaced that it was ground zero for the latest controversial video.


  Journalists lined the booths at the Steak Queen restaurant Tuesday evening.


  Yvon Romano, a 39-year-old Etobicoke electrician, was less than enthusiastic about the mayor.
While eating at the restaurant, Romano said he appreciates how Ford “acknowledges the little guy” but added that he’s surprised by his recent behaviour, particularly the news that Ford was videotaped at the eatery with Lisi.


  Penny Morrison, a Rexdale resident who identified herself as an unflinching Ford supporter, entered the restaurant to express her views to the media.


  “The entire world laughed at Jesus too .
.
.
I want Rob to know that come Oct.
27, he’s the boss and he will win.”


  Wednesday is a big day at City Hall as Ford and the executive committee meet to cast their final vote on the city budget.

Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				George Chuvalo jokes with Mayor Rob Ford after receiving the key to the city.

			

  Mayor
  
    Rob Ford
  
  was asked to leave a gala event celebrating the Canadian armed forces last month, because organizers were concerned he was impaired.


  The request to leave the Toronto Garrison Ball came two weeks before Sarah Thomson, a Toronto businesswoman and former mayoral candidate, created a media storm when she
  
    accused Ford of groping her
  
  while acting “out of it” at a Jewish political group’s event.


  It’s an open secret at city hall that the mayor has battled alcohol abuse.
Those closest to him are concerned for his health and the impact it has on his job as mayor of Canada’s largest city.
Current and former staff have told the Star of repeated attempts to persuade the mayor to get help for more than two years and as recently as November.
All attempts have been rebuffed.


  The
  
    Garrison Ball is an annual dinner,
  
  attended by 800 soldiers, sailors, airforce personnel and civilians.
The ball raised money for the well known Wounded Warriors charity.
Billed as an evening of “pageantry and camaraderie,” the dinner was held on Saturday, Feb.
23, at the Liberty Grand near Toronto’s waterfront.


  Guests at the event included Minister of National Defence Peter MacKay, Chief of Defence Staff Gen.
Tom Lawson, and Vice-Admiral Paul Maddison, the commander of the Royal Canadian Navy.


  Ford arrived late to the cocktail and dinner event.
He was speaking in a rambling, incoherent manner that alarmed some of the guests, according to organizers, military reservists and a prominent Ottawa conservative who were interviewed for this story.
Toronto Councillor Paul Ainslie, a strong Ford ally, confirmed to the Star that Ford was asked to leave.


  “I urged the mayor’s chief of staff, Mark Towhey, to have the mayor leave the event,” Ainslie said in an interview.
Ainslie refused to discuss why Ford was asked to leave.


  Three members of the Garrison Ball organizing committee said Ford was asked to leave because he appeared impaired.
One said, “he seemed either drunk, high or had a medical condition.”


  Neither Ford nor his senior staff have responded to a detailed interview request related to the Garrison event and the longstanding concern of Ford staffers that the mayor has a substance abuse problem that is affecting his job.
“No time today (to talk) sorry.
I’m underwater,” Towhey told the Star in a text message Friday.
He later added, “I am not qualified to comment on what wonderful things you may or may not be expecting.”


  The Garrison Ball event — attended by military personnel in uniforms and civilians in black tie — began with cocktails and a silent auction at 5:30 p.m
Dinner was set for 7 p.m
Ford was invited to the previous year’s ball but did not show up.
When he arrived this year, around the time salad was being served, organizers were initially pleased.


  However, over the next hour, people in attendance noticed that the mayor seemed impaired.
According to interviews, he was “incoherent,” “stumbling,” “rambling,” “intoxicated,” “slurring,” “seemed to be drunk,” “was nervous, excited, sweaty, out of it.”


  Military guests were offended at the mayor’s behaviour, according to guests interviewed by the Star.
“It felt disrespectful to the event,” said one organizer.


  The six guests who provided accounts of the mayor’s condition spoke on condition of anonymity.
The Star found that while these guests were concerned with the mayor’s condition, they did not want to be identified for two reasons.
First, they did not want to be linked to a story that would cast a poor light on the annual Garrison Ball, which raises money for Wounded Warriors, a federally registered charity.
Second, these guests, who all have prominent positions in the community, feared they would somehow be blacklisted for speaking out about the mayor.


  The Star reached out to dozens of guests who attended the gala.
Many did not respond to interview requests.


  Asked about his interactions with the mayor that night, event co-chair Mark McQueen said via email, “I don’t traffic in gossip,” and later said he sees no reason why the mayor would have been asked to leave.


  “When I saw him interacting with guests, albeit from a distance, people were cheerfully introducing themselves to him and posing for photographs,” wrote McQueen, chair of the Toronto Port Authority, who sat at the head table.


  Ford was at the dinner for only about an hour.
At one point, he stumbled and nearly fell on the stairs near the washrooms, according to people involved in organizing the event.
Eventually, Ford made his way to his table, sponsored by the Port Authority, trailed by his chief of staff, Mark Towhey, a former Canadian forces infantry captain and crisis management consultant.


  Guests told the Star the mayor at times stumbled as he walked and they believed he was drunk or otherwise impaired.


  Councillor Ainslie, who is a member of both the mayor’s executive committee and the ball’s 13-member organizing committee, was approached by another organizer who had an encounter with the mayor.
Ainslie was asked to “get him out of here.” The councillor went to investigate during the meal, then urged Towhey to have the mayor leave, according to a source on the committee
Ford sat briefly at his table during speeches, then left.


  “This was a charity event… (some) on the organizing committee felt he was embarrassing the event,” said the source.


  Those closest to Ford say the severity of the problem fluctuates.
According to past and present staffers interviewed by the Star over the past year, discussions about getting Ford help for binge drinking have been going on for more than two years.
While current and ex-staffers spoke privately to the Star, they did not want their names attached for fear of political retribution.


  In the summer of 2011, there was talk about orchestrating an extended faux vacation for Ford and his wife, so the mayor could enroll in a rehabilitation centre.
Ford refused.
With formal treatment off the table, staff tried to connect Ford with a prominent individual who has also suffered from addiction.
The mayor would not meet with him.


  In an interview with one of his senior staff a year ago, the Star was told “maybe the mayor needs a wake-up call, something to convince him he has a problem and needs help.”


  According to a source currently within the Ford administration, the mayor’s drinking has largely been under control during his recent court battles.
Ford was genuinely fearful about the conflict of interest case against him.
And city councillors within Ford’s circle were pressuring the mayor to clean up.


  The Twitter LCBO sightings stopped.
Now, these two most recent incidents — the Garrison Ball and the Sarah Thomson incident two weeks later — have those closest with him fearing he’s “fallen off the wagon.”


  In the case of the alleged groping of Thomson at the Canadian Jewish Political Affairs Committee party at Arcadian Court, Ford has denied the allegation and questioned on a radio program
  
    whether Sarah Thomson is “playing with a full deck.”
  


  For well over a year, Ford’s staff has been encouraging the mayor to seek help.
According to one former staffer, high-ranking members of his team reached out to Ford on numerous occasions, but whenever confronted, Ford would only say: “‘I’m good.
Don’t worry about it.’”


  Five sources who have worked closely with Ford say alcohol has been a problem with the mayor for years.
They point to the
  
    impaired driving conviction in Florida in 1999
  
  and the infamous Maple Leafs Game in 2006, where Ford — then a councillor — launched into a drunken tirade at a Durham Region couple.
Ford initially denied ever being at the game, but eventually apologized.


  Shortly after taking office, the concerns over drinking became more frequent, though perplexed staffers have said they rarely catch him drinking, fuelling suspicion that he binge drinks prior to events.
According to current and former staff, the situation worsened as his administration lost control of the agenda at council in the fall of 2011.
That’s also when he began withdrawing.


  His workload dropped off dramatically.
Documents obtained by the Star through freedom of information suggest that by late 2011 and early last year, Ford was doing about half the amount of work as the same period a year earlier.


  On Christmas Day 2011,
  
    police came to his Etobicoke home
  
  after Ford’s in-laws called 911 to report the mayor had been drinking and was taking the children to the airport.
The incident was filed as a domestic dispute and no charges were laid.
Doug Ford later told the Toronto Sun that Ford had not been drinking and that the incident was “blown out of proportion … a minor disagreement and some misunderstandings.”


  Sources close to Ford explained the mayor’s behaviour by citing say the stress of budget discussions and the subway debate.


  Then on March 17, St.
Patrick’s Day, Ford and a small entourage including at least two staff headed to a private room before midnight in the Bier Markt on the Esplanade.


  On the way to the bar a fellow reveler, Jennifer Gordon, said she saw Ford “stumbling down the street” and she walked up to him.


  “He was inebriated and sweaty but in a jovial way,” Gordon recalled shortly after the incident.
“Me being me, I said: ‘You’re the worst mayor ever.’”


  She said Ford walked over, kissed her on the forehead, and said: “I know, but I try.”


  What happened next sounded alarm bells for Ford’s staff.
The following morning, senior Ford staff interviewed junior staff who were with Ford at the Bier Markt and asked tough questions about the mayor’s behaviour and whether he had driven drunk.
Senior staff were assured Ford did not drive.


  Inside the Bier Markt, according to restaurant staff and a Ford staffer, Ford and his small group went into a private room.
They appeared intoxicated and were rambunctious.
The restaurant staffer told the Star Ford was “incoherent” and “hammered.” Bier Markt owner Robert Medal said this was untrue and called Ford “an exemplary guest.”


  At one point, Ford ventured onto the dance floor.
The DJ who worked that night told the Dean Blundell radio show the mayor was fighting and carrying on "like an idiot.” He was then escorted out by security
Restaurant staff say he was asked to leave after “storming the dance floor.”


  A senior staffer with Ford told the Star that Ford was escorted out by his own staff and some restaurant staff.
The staffer said the mayor made another leap for the dance floor, then was told to leave and he walked out.


  In view of the Bier Markt night, the Sarah Thomson incident and the Garrison Ball, several of Ford’s closest allies and supporters say they are supportive of this information being made public.

Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
Controversial former heavyweight champion boxer Mike Tyson is defending Rob Ford.
Tyson met the mayor at Toronto City Hall Tuesday and said public figures deserve the same understanding for their troubles as anyone.
Tyson, who has been convicted of rape and other crimes, met with Ford for more than 40minutes in the mayor’s city hall office on Tuesday afternoon.
When they emerged, Tyson offered a full-throated defence of a man he called “the best mayor in Toronto’s history.”
Ford returned the favour — praising, defending and likening himself to an eccentric fighter with a face tattoo who famously bit off part of an opponent’s ear.
“We’re cut from the same cloth,” Ford said.
“There’s no nonsense.
I respect him.” 
The bizarre hallway spectacle, which attracted both Ford supporters and Tyson fans, took place during a mayoral election campaign in which Ford’s rivals have accused him of turning city hall into a “circus” and spending more time acting like a “celebrity” than leading the city.
Five participants in the Rob Ford Must Go sit-in outside the mayor’s office pointedly turned their backs on the journalists who waited for Tyson’s arrival.
They expressed displeasure with both the coverage and the Ford-Tyson summit itself.
Tyson was convicted of rape in 1992 and assault in 1998.
He pleaded guilty in 2007 to cocaine possession and driving under the influence.
His ex-wife, Robin Givens, has accused him of domestic violence; he has not been convicted.
“We’re welcoming a rapist and a wife-beater to city hall with open arms, and he’s banned in the U.K
for those charges.
It’s just not acceptable to me,” said protester Carmen Celestini.
Ford was asked earlier in the day whether he has any qualms about meeting with someone who has been convicted of rape.
He said: “I’m not going to comment on his personal life.”
Many of Tyson’s remarks echoed Ford’s own talking points of past and present.
Tyson said “we all make mistakes,” that Ford has “overcome adversity,” and that Ford has a troubled past only because he has been under “24-hour surveillance” by the media.
Tyson said he doesn’t know “anything” about Ford’s history of racial slurs.
He joked about the violent caught-on-video Ford tirade in which Tyson’s name is mentioned by someone off camera as Ford threatens to kill an unnamed adversary.
Tyson is in town to perform his one-man show, Mike Tyson: Undisputed Truth, at the Air Canada Centre on Wednesday night.
According to Ford, Tyson requested the 2 p.m
meeting.
“I’ve just never met the man before, and interested in seeing what he has to say,” Ford said.
Ford has met at city hall with comedian Dave Chappelle, Toronto rapper Snow, banned-for-life former sprinter Ben Johnson, and Trailer Park Boys actor Sam Tarasco, who hosts a marijuana-smoking show.
He also used the Johnson meeting to promote his message of second chances.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Rob Ford appears in a photo taken at the advance poll at Driftwood Community Centre, where he was asked to leave after apparently engaging in illegal campaigning.
			
Rob Ford (open Rob Ford's policard) was asked to leave an advance polling station outside his own ward on Thursday after apparently campaigning illegally on the voting site.
The Star was given an account of the incident by a witness who asked to remain anonymous.
The city confirmed most of that account.
In an email, the witness said Ford, who is running for a council seat in Ward 2 Etobicoke North, was inside Driftwood Community Centre near Jane St.
and Driftwood Ave.
around 3:30 p.m
while the advance poll was taking place.
A photo appears to show Ford, wearing a pinstriped suit, inside the centre just outside the room where voting was taking place.
A yellow sign marking the voting place can be seen behind him.
The witness said Ford had to be escorted from the building by city security, where he “continued persuading members of the public to vote” as he lingered in the parking lot outside.
City spokesperson Leisa Odlum confirmed Ford was at the community centre Thursday and was asked to leave, but said Ford left on his own and was not escorted from the polling station.
“Staff at the voting location advised him that campaigning is not permitted anywhere within the designated voting place.
Our understanding is that once he was advised of this, he left the voting location,” she said in an email.
Odlum said Ford “was speaking with electors and having photos taken.
Staff at the location advised him that it was not permitted anywhere within the designated voting location.”
Campaigning of any kind is not allowed at voting locations, as set out by Ontario’s Municipal Elections Act.
It prohibits campaigning inside the building and also on the property where the building is located.
The Act says: “While an elector is in a voting place, no person shall attempt, directly or indirectly, to influence how the elector votes.”
It’s not clear why Ford was at the location Thursday.
Though also in the northwest end of the city, the Driftwood Community Centre is some distance from the Etobicoke ward where Ford is running to be councillor — separated by another ward.
Ford’s brother, Doug Ford (open Doug Ford's policard), who replaced him in the race for mayor last month when Rob was diagnosed with a rare cancer, was campaigning downtown on Spadina Ave.
on Thursday afternoon.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
There's been a huge development in the Rob Ford story.
Police chief Bill Blair says they are in possession of the controversial video showing the city's Mayor.
Toronto Police have recovered the video that appears to show Mayor Rob For smoking crack cocaine, Toronto police Chief Bill Blair said Thursday.
“The video files depict images that are consistent with what has previously been reported” in the media, Blair said at a news conference on the heels of a release of documents used by police to obtain search warrants during their summer investigation.
“I wish I could defend myself, unfortunately I can’t because it’s before the courts right now,” was his first statement.
Ford has since May refused to comment on the video “that I have never seen or does not exist.”
The Star earlier reported that Lisi, who was arrested Oct.
1 on drug charges, was involved in attempts to recover the video.
Ford himself has been the target of a police investigation that witnessed and photographed him in months of on-the-ground and airplane surveillance taking part in meetings with Lisi, according to the documents, released on orders of Superior Court Justice Ian Nordheimer.
Only half of the 500 pages have been released.
The other half will be the subject of legal arguments to be submitted by Nov.
8.
Blair told reporters they recovered two videos from a computer hard drive on Oct.
29 that are relevant to their investigation.
At least one will eventually be presented in court.
The Star has been told by sources that the 90-second video its reporters saw was an edited version of the original.
“It’s safe to say the mayor does appear in the video,” Blair told reporters.
Blair said he has seen the video.
His reaction? “As a citizen of the city, I am disappointed.”
The files had been deleted but were recovered by police.
There is no indication that the video was doctored, Blair said.
Based on the video, Blair said, there is nothing now that would support laying a criminal charge against Ford.
The details of an extensive police investigation into Ford’s drug activities come six months after two Toronto Star reporters saw a video showing the mayor, obviously impaired, smoking what appears to be crack cocaine and making homophobic and racist slurs.
In a heavily censored portion of the document, police said that the day after the world learned news of the video that appeared to show Ford smoking crack cocaine, top homicide detective Sgt.
Gary Giroux was assigned to “investigate the existence of a cellular phone containing a video of Ford smoking crack cocaine.”
The search warrant documents contain allegations that have not been tested in court.
The only charges laid in the matter involve Lisi and dry cleaner Jamshid Bahrami, who were swept up in the Oct.
1 raid.
“We continue to gather information,” when asked if the probe was still ongoing, Blair said.
In the hour after news broke about the video, Lisi feverishly worked his phone, calling an alleged Dixon gang member and a resident of the now notorious 15 Windsor Rd.
drug house where Ford was photographed with Anthony Smith, Monir Kassim and Mohammad Khattak.
The newly released documents gave a detailed glimpse into Ford and Lisi’s activities on the evening of May 16 when online gossip site Gawkerand the Star wrote about the video.
For the next 45 minutes, Lisi feverishly contacted an unidentified number, trading nine texts and four calls.
Lisi also called Liban Siyad, an alleged member of the Dixon City Bloods arrested during the June 13 Project Traveller raids on Dixon Rd.
The two spoke twice in a matter of minutes.
Lisi worked late throughout the night, repeatedly calling Basso, whose home, according to several sources, was the setting of the alleged crack video.
Ford called Lisi for the first time nearly 21 hours after news broke about the crack video.
The call lasted 22 seconds.
Ford called back a minute later from his home phone and cell.
The two talked three more times that evening before Lisi spoke to Mohamed Siad, the alleged gang member trying to sell the video.
Lisi spent the next day talking to Ford, Siad and another alleged member of the Dixon gang.
A day after the Star revealed that drug dealers were shopping around a video appearing to show Ford smoking crack cocaine, Price contacted the mayor’s then-chief of staff, Mark Towhey, and asked “hypothetically” what the mayor’s office would do if Price had been told where to find the video.
“Towhey had suspicions that Sandro was a drug dealer,” the document said.
Towhey asked Price to look into Lisi but Price not able to find out much about him.
Both had concerns about Lisi; Towhey was concerned because Lisi was the driver the night of the Garrison Ball, the documents said.
“The source advises that they have seen the following people at this address: Liban Siyad, Abdhullahi, Monir Kassim, Ahmed Dirie, Anthony Smith.”
Kassim was also arrested during Project Traveller on weapons and drugs charges.
Smith was shot dead on March 27.
Khattak, who was injured in the Smith shooting, was arrested during Project Traveller.
From March 18 to June 24, Lisi had phone conversations with Ford and two of the mayor’s special assistants — Thomas Beyer and Chris Fickel, according to the documents.
On the same phone, Lisi also spoke with Fabio Basso, who lives at 15 Windsor Rd.
In the 44 days, Lisi and Ford had 349 “points of telephone contact,” the documents said.
Ford helped Lisi escape police surveillance at least once, letting his friend sneak into City Hall’s underground employee parking lot, according to allegations in the police’s ITO.
On Wednesday, July 24, a detective sergeant with the force’s mobile support unit followed Lisi as he weaved his way through side streets near the Westway.
Lisi “was followed to the downtown core where he began to circle the area of Bay Street and Queen Street West, executing U-turns on several occasions,” the police said.
Lisi eventually dipped into the underground lot at City Hall.
Ford, waiting at the entrance, “swiped him into the controlled access area,” the police said.
That night, Ford and Lisi watched the Blue Jays lose 3-8 to the Los Angeles Dodgers, police said.
The next day, police again used the plane for surveillance, the documents said.
They saw Lisi and an unknown male passenger drive to the TTC Wilson yard and in to what appeared to be a fenced in and secure parking lot (signed “Authorized Person Only/No Trespassing).
The unknown man got in a white Ford Explorer.
Lisi was followed back to his home, the documents said.
During their June 15 surveillance of Lisi, police alleged in the documents they observed him drive a red Mustang to the Metro grocery store at Royal York Road and Trehorne Drive.
Lisi parked, stood outside the main doors, “scanning the parking lot while on his cellular phone,” then met a man walking a dog.
That man was later identified as Thomas Beyer, executive assistant to the mayor.
Both men got into Beyer’s vehicle and drove to Lisi’s Mustang, which Lisi gets into.
According to the documents, Fickel told police that the mayor and Lisi spent a lot of time together until “media release events [crack video scandal].”
“Fickel does not know where the mayor got marijuana from but has heard that ‘Sandro’ may be the person who provides the mayor with marijuana and possibly cocaine.”
The former staffer added that Aboodowleh “said that he was mad at Lisi because he was fuelling the mayor’s drug abuse.”
There are also multiple examples of on-the-ground surveillance in the documents, in which a pattern emerged of meetings at an Esso station just 350 metres from Ford’s home.
For example, just before 4 p.m
on Sept.
8, after calls were placed to Lisi from the mayor’s Deco label business and his car’s On Star system, the pair met at the Esso gas station near Ford’s home.
Police watched as Ford entered the gas station, bought a newspaper and a Gatorade, then waited in his car.
When Lisi arrived at 4 p.m., Ford went into the gas station again to use the washroom without speaking to Lisi, who backed his Range Rover up besides the mayor’s vehicle.
Ford got back in his car, the pair rolled down their windows, talked briefly, and then left.
The documents detail another meeting at the Esso station around 5:40 p.m
July 1.
The gas station’s security footage shows Ford arriving in his black Escalade heading straight to the station’s bathroom.
Lisi drove up, apparently texting someone on his phone while holding an envelope.
Lisi entered the Esso and “searches around the refrigerators,” police said, before picking up a few Gatorades and a bag of chips.
He left and was caught on security cameras standing near the mayor’s vehicle, holding the envelope.
“Lisi appears to be looking around, possibly scoping out the area,” the document said.
“He walks along the passenger side of the Mayor’s Escalade and walks out of (the security camera’s) frame.
He is not seen again.”
Around the same time, Ford left the washroom and bought a Gatorade and pack of gum.
He spent about 10 minutes in the store.
On July 11, Lisi put a package or envelope in Ford’s car at the Esso station at 5:44 p.m
Three minutes later, Ford leaves the gas station, gets into his Escalade and drives away.
Ford had made two short calls to Lisi before the encounter, the documents said, and Lisi called Ford on his OnStar car phone at 5:56 p.m
They spoke for less than four minutes.
“Lisi is related to someone that went to high school with (David) Price and (Rob’s brother and city councilor) Doug Ford.
Lisi’s relative, a cousin, is Joe Malfera,” the document said.
In a letter submitted to the courts June 13 as part of Lisi’s sentencing for threatening to kill a young woman, Mayor Ford submitted a letter of reference to the court as did Joe Malfara (as it is spelled in the letter).
In his letter, Malfara said he owns and operates a garage and gas station at 165 Rogers Rd.
and has employed Lisi part-time between 2001 and 2009 and that Lisi has “conducted himself professionally and respectfully during his employ.” 
Surveillance on the ground and in the air on June 26 tracked Lisi and an “unknown male” as they drove a red Mustang from Lisi’s house to a soccer field at Renforth Drive and Centennial Park Gate.
Lisi met Ford, who was watching a soccer game, the police documents said.
Lisi returned to the Mustang and retrieved a white plastic bag from behind the driver’s seat.
The bag “already contained items in it, as it appeared to be weighted,” the documents said.
Lisi grabbed some cans of Minute Maid from the trunk and put them in the same plastic bag, walked to Ford’s Escalade, put the bag in the front and walked back to Ford, the documents said.
On Aug.
13, police followed Lisi and Ford to Weston Wood Park, where the pair “met and made their way into a secluded area of the adjacent woods,’ according to details in the documents.
Police watched the two men for about an hour, then Lisi and Ford left the park and both got into their vehicles and drove away.
Police entered the park and a “vodka and juice bottle were seized from this spot.
So as not to reveal that the original bottles were seized replacement bottles were left behind.”
Before the meeting, Lisi had received a call from a cellphone “associated” with Deco Adhesive Products, according to the documents.
Under the section called “Biography/Background of Mayor Rob Ford,” the document notes Ford’s political history and philosophy, community service, volunteer work, football coaching career and football foundation.
The documents quoted a police source as saying, “Whenever the Mayor gets Leaf tickets or something similar in nature he takes Lisi.
Lisi normally drives the Mayor to these events.
“Nico Fidani (a former junior staffer of the mayor’s) had brought up concerns that Lisi was providing the Mayor with illegal drugs.
Fidani thought that Lisi would drive the Mayor around to ‘hot spots’s and facilitate getting drugs for the Mayor.
“Fidani thought Lisi was addicted to drugs,” the police documents alleged.
Ford only said “thank you” in response to questions about whether he is the focus of a police drug investigation.
As journalists backed onto the sidewalk, Ford yelled “Get off my property” several times and waved a handful of dress shirts he was carrying, as if to shoo them away from his black Cadillac Escalade.
He also pointed at his roof, warning reporters there was a camera installed.
The documents suggested police Project Traveller wiretaps also picked up details of meeting between Gawker’s John Cook and tipster who claimed to have an “associate” in possession of the video.
For Ford, the tough campaigner who leads Ford Nation, it remains to be seen whether the fact that police surveillance teams spent the summer watching him consort with drug and weapons dealers will have an impact on the former Scarlett Heights football player’s popularity.
Olivia Chow, John Tory, Karen Stintz, and other potential mayoral candidates are waiting in the wings.
Ford, who proudly says he has never given up on anything, has warned the election will be a “bloodbath” and that his fellow candidates will “bring up everything.”
It all began with news of a video shot somewhere near the Dixon Rd.
apartments, site of the Project Traveller raids.
Ford is pictured alone in the video, shot on a drug dealer’s iPhone.
A voice off camera goads the mayor into making comments.
Justin Trudeau’s name is mentioned, and Ford calls him a “fag.” The use of Trudeau’s name gives a hint to timing of the video, which is also still a mystery
Trudeau was in the news for the Patrick Brazeau boxing match in early 2012, and in the news in early fall 2012 for his leadership battle.
Intensely loyal to family and close friends, Ford has surrounded himself with a group of yes men who are equally loyal.
When Lisi was arrested, Ford made a point of saying he does not “throw my friends under the bus.”
What is clear is that Ford and Lisi spent a terrific amount of time together.
They met four times a week outside Lisi’s home just east of the Dixon Rd.
apartments that were the epicentre of the Project Traveller guns and drugs raids.
We now know that Lisi and Mohamed Siad, who wanted to sell the crack video, were close.
Did Siad supply drugs to Lisi? That was likely a question police tried to answer.
We also know that a six-man Toronto police “spin team” spent hundreds of hours watching and following Lisi and Ford.
They used cameras mounted on telephone poles, tracking devices on cars, listening devices and even a Cessna airplane flying low over Etobicoke, so low that people the Star interviewed said there was no doubt the cops were watching.
A “pole camera” installed around July 18 on Madill Street to monitor Lisi’s home could be accessed remotely online by officers, the documents said.
On July 23, the camera caught Ford arriving outside Lisi’s house around 9:30 p.m
in his Escalade and walking toward Lisi’s house.
At 11:10 p.m
Ford and Lisi are filmed walking together toward the Escalade.
The mayor drove off.
Ford may have known he was being watched during an Aug.
18 meeting with Liso in the parking lot of Scarlett Heights Entrepreneurial Academy, the documents said.
The meeting ended when a police surveillance vehicle in the area was “spotted.” The mayor and Lisi drove out in their vehicles at a “high rate of speed.”
Lisi also displayed counter surveillance techniques (frequently stopping his car, turning into random parking lots and driving the other way, etc.) while police followed him.
Police said they saw a black Cadillac Escalade circle the streets around Madill.
Officers traced the licence plate to Deco Adhesive Products, a business owned by the Ford family.
Officers followed the black SUV as it headed away from the Madill Street area and identified Ford as the driver.
A day later, police watched Lisi leave home and go to nearby townhouse complex at Islington Ave.
and Dixon Rd.
Several minutes later, Lisi was seen leaving the backyard of townhouse on Sweet Pea Path.
The police document notes wryly, “Through the research I conducted I conclude that Richview Cleaners only specializes in dry-cleaning and is not in the food industry.”
The Ford family’s black Escalade pulled into Lisi’s driveway.
Officers followed the Escalade when it left and identified Ford as the driver.
After that June 17 surveillance, police discussed the difficulties of seeing “where Lisi is going or what he is doing” and the possibility of getting a “tracking warrant and or the plane.”
The documents note a CCTV camera appeared to have been installed over the garage doors of Lisi’s home.
The camera faced the driveway but police weren’t sure if it was recording.
Police obtained a warrant to search a house and detached garage at 82 Thirty-Ninth St., the documents said
Tony and Celia Lisi, Sandro’s parents, bought the property last year.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				In this still from a video posted on YouTube, Mayor Rob Ford sits with friend Alexander "Sandro" Lisi at an apparently friendly meeting at the Steak Queen restaurant in January, the same night a video showed Ford slurring and ranting in Jamaican patois.
			
Mayor Rob Ford assaulted friend Sandro Lisi and repeatedly used a highly offensive racial slur on the night he was filmed smoking crack cocaine, according to the 20-year-old drug dealer who shot the recent video.
Ford repeatedly used the n-word to refer to the drug dealer, and described former Toronto Community Housing boss Eugene Jones, whom he supports, with the same word, the man alleged.
“No n----- gets fired in my town.
When I get re-elected that n----- is going to be back in charge,” Ford said, according to the dealer’s account of the night.
The Star met the 20-year-old man and an associate Thursday in Kingston.
The man spent two hours going over his account of the night.
Dennis Morris, Ford’s criminal lawyer, said he had no knowledge of the alleged remarks and could not comment.
He also said he was unaware that his client got into an altercation with Lisi.
Lisi has been charged with extortion for allegedly trying to retrieve an earlier video showing the mayor smoking crack and making homophobic and racially charged comments.
The mayor has remained publicly loyal to his friend.
The 20-year-old man described himself as a friend of Kathy Ford, who is 53.
He said he has an involvement in the drug world but balked when a Star reporter called him a drug dealer.
“I’m just following the paper (money) like everybody else in the world,” he said.
The video viewed by the Star clearly shows Lisi, Rob Ford and Kathy Ford.
It does not record the alleged beating of Lisi but does show Ford inhaling from a homemade pipe passed to him by Kathy, who has struggled with drug addiction.
A cloud of white smoke is spread as Ford inhales and exhales.
The microphone on the man’s iPhone was not working and only white noise is heard.
The Star did not pay any money to view the video.
In his account of the evening, the drug dealer alleges that Ford three times got Lisi down and pummeled him until Kathy Ford intervened .
“Poor Sandro was crying like a baby,” the dealer said, describing Lisi down on the ground, protecting his face as blows rained down on him from Ford.
“Leave him be, Robbie,” the man recalled Kathy saying.
“He’s the mob,” Ford said, getting up off Lisi.
“Oh right,” Kathy said, rolling her eyes, the man said.
Ford’s use of racist language in public and in private was a concern for his staff during his mayoralty, former aides told the Star last year during the turbulent weeks after news emerged of the first video showing the mayor smoking crack cocaine.
On Monday, an apparently impaired Ford was recorded at an Etobicoke bar making disparaging remarks about Italians in audio obtained by the Toronto Sun.
In the recording, the mayor mentions “a dumb f---ing w-p over there.”
Sources last year told the Star such vulgar language was not uncommon for Ford in private conversations overheard by staff.
Ford’s lawyer, Morris, said he could not comment on the allegations.
“I can’t comment because you don’t identify (the sources),” said Morris, adding he has no way to confirm the information is “authentic.”
He questioned whether the comments could have been “cherry-picked” to portray Ford in a negative way.
“It’s very hard to comment when I don’t have the full picture before me,” he said.
In the infamous video of Ford smoking crack cocaine revealed by the Star last May, the mayor is heard referring to the black football players he used to coach as “just f---ing minorities.”
Similarly, on the mayor’s St.
Patrick’s Day bender in 2012, he called a cab driver an ethnic slur as mortified aides sat beside him in the taxi.
This week, insiders told the Star that Ford is usually careful around more senior staff and other politicians, but he lets loose when hanging out with his friends or in front of younger aides — especially when under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
Last January, he was secretly recorded at the Steak Queen restaurant spewing profane, expletive-laden insults at Police Chief Bill Blair, whose officers had been investigating the mayor’s activities and associations.
The drug dealer described how he came to be at Kathy Ford’s home Friday night.
She had called him to come over and “meet the mayor,” the man said.
The drug dealer alleged he walked down to the basement to find Ford already impaired and that Ford immediately “puffed out his chest and acted like he wanted to fight me.” 
Ford then asked the man to “feel my muscles,” the dealer said.
The dealer alleged that when Kathy intervened in the attack on Lisi, Ford pushed and kicked his sister before backing off.
He alleged that she then lit up a crack pipe.
“Give me some of that,” Ford allegedly said, and grabbed the pipe.
Those were the Rae days in Ontario.
