Mitt Romney, in some of his first reported remarks since his concession speech, claimed Wednesday he lost the presidential election because President Obama provided "gifts" to key groups like black, Hispanic and young voters.
The Republican presidential nominee did not acknowledge any major missteps in his campaign in a phone call with top donors Wednesday, attributing his loss to Obama's focus on distinct groups rather than the country as a whole.
 .
Romney said that in contrast, his campaign was more focused on "big issues for the whole country." 
Romney also blamed his problems as a candidate on the attacks against him by the Obama campaign, especially their efforts to paint him as anti-immigrant.
He said his campaign, though superb, had trouble because of these attacks until he was able to come back during the debates.
Louisiana Gov.
Bobby Jindal criticized Romney's comments later Wednesday, as some GOP leaders offered critiques of their party's last campaign on the first day of Republican Governors Association (RGA) meetings in Las Vegas. 
Jindal, thought to be a potential 2016 candidate and the incoming RGA chairman, said he "absolutely rejects" Romney's "gifts" assertion, and said those types of notions do not represent who Republicans are as a party.
Jindal also said though the party needs to modernize, he emphasized that it can reach an increasingly diverse electorate without becoming “a 2nd Democratic party.” He said he believes the U.S
is still a center-right nation.
 .
Jindal has been outspoken with his criticisms of his party since its loss last week, telling Politico on Monday that the GOP needs to "stop being the stupid party."
He said the GOP needs to offer an inclusive message to a wide range of voters to thwart the Democrats' characterization of them as the party of the rich.
Ahead of his competitors in the race to be the GOP presidential nominee, Romney now faces a to-do list that includes selecting a running mate. (AP)
April 1: Republican presidential candidate, former Massachusetts Gov.
Mitt Romney is interviewed by Martha MacCallum, co-anchor of "America's Newsroom" on the Fox News Channel. (AP)
Republican presidential candidate, former Massachusetts Gov.
Mitt Romney, accompanied by his wife Ann, prepares to speak at the National Rifle Association convention in St.
Louis, Friday, April 13, 2012.
(AP Photo/Michael Conroy).
I’m not talking some financial advantage – though fundraising for GOP-leaning Super PACs is far outpacing those supporting the president.
And I am not talking about an organizational edge that comes from having the GOP control the governorships and state legislatures in battleground states like Ohio, Pennsylvania, Florida, Michigan and Wisconsin.
After seeing the candidate stumble repeatedly in the primaries, despite having every advantage, the campaign is extremely aware of their candidates’ weaknesses.
They are now in the process of executing a strategy that downplays that weakness.
This is the moment predicted by the revealing ‘Etch-A-Sketch’ comment from a top Romney aide.
Here are the pivot points to watch for as the old Romney fades from the screen and a new Romney appears for the voters on key issues:.
The Economy: Romney is a successful businessman.
He made billions of dollars as a cold-eyed hedge fund manager.
To lots of voters that means he has the ability to turn the economy around.
His primary opponents pointed to poor job creation during his time as governor of Massachusetts.
They attacked him as a “vulture capitalist,” to try to derail Romney’s strong image as a man who can fix the economy. 
The most recent ABC News/Washington Post poll finds that regardless of whom they plan to vote for, voters trust Romney to do a better job of handling the economy, 47 to 43 percent.
The same poll also said that voters trust Romney to do a better job of handling the budget deficit, 51 percent to Obama’s 38 percent.
 .
This is why Romney will pivot back to the economy no matter which direction the campaign takes.
His team knows that it is still his biggest strength and his best hope to win the election.
Latinos: Romney is beginning the Herculean task of repairing the damage that he has done with Latino voters on the immigration. 
Again, the pivot point will be the economy. 
He will say the big issue for Latinos is the economy not immigration.
He will talk about restoring economic opportunity -- the dream -- for people who come to the United States.
When he has to talk about immigration he will focus on expansion of legal immigration and matching up the visa program with employer needs.
 He is already making the shrewd point that illegal immigration is an affront and an economic threat to legal immigrants.
The Romney camp knows this is going to be a tough pivot point for a candidate who supports the hard-line Arizona immigration laws, opposes a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants, opposes in-state tuition for illegal immigrants and opposes the DREAM Act to give citizenship to young people in school or the military. 
But once again the economic message will have to be the cure-all.
"We have to get Hispanic voters to vote for our party," Romney said at a Florida fundraiser this past weekend, citing that polls show Latinos breaking in huge numbers for the Democrats.
He said this trend "spells doom for us”.
Women: The ABC/Washington Post poll found that President Obama leads Romney by a staggering 19 points among women voters.
These results complement those of a March Gallup poll which had the president leading Romney by 14 points amongst independent women voters in swing states. 
Once again, the pivot point will have to be an economic message tailored to women.
All of the rhetoric from Republican governors and members of Congress about restricting access to contraception and abortion has taken its toll on their presumptive nominee. 
Just last week, Romney ally Governor Scott Walker (R-Wis.) voted to limit women’s rights to sue when they are paid less than their male counterparts for doing the same work
By contrast, the first piece of legislation signed in to law by President Obama was the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act.
Examples like these are the basis for the Democrat’s rhetoric about the GOP’s war on women.
Romney’s team wants to get back to economics.
That is why Team Romney reacted with glee when Hilary Rosen, a prominent Democratic strategist, said “Ann Romney had never worked a day in her life.” Romney turned it around into an economic argument claiming that President Obama’s economic policies have hurt the job market for women
He repeated the dubious claim that “92 percent of all the jobs lost under Obama have been women’s job.”
Independent fact-checkers have debunked this claim as an outrageous distortion.
But what matters is changing the conversation from social issues – such as contraception – to the economy.
 .
The answer, the pivot, on any and all issues for Romney is going to be the economy.
And the attacks on President Obama as a poor manager of the economy are just starting.
Earlier this month, Romney blasted the president for “learning about the economy from the Harvard faculty lounge,” and “spending too much time at Harvard.” 
Yet, Romney earned both a J.D
and an MBA from the same prestigious Ivy League University.
Three of his five sons also attended Harvard. 
All that matters is the pivot -- moving voters to train their minds on the economy.
Juan Williams is a Fox News political analystl.
He is the author of several books including "Enough: The Phony Leaders, Dead-End Movements, and Culture of Failure That Are Undermining Black America--and What We Can Do About It" and "Muzzled: The Assault on Honest Debate."
Former President Bill Clinton was the first person President Obama called after receiving the call from Mitt Romney conceding the 2012 presidential election, Fox News has learned. 
There were just four people in the room when Obama received the call from Romney: the president, campaign manager Jim Messina and senior advisers David Axelrod and David Plouffe. 
The President expressed satisfaction that it was a “very classy” gesture in terms of how Romney handled the call. 
Obama then hung up the phone and immediately dialed Clinton to thank him for his work on the president' re-election campaign.
The warm embrace between the two presidents is a far cry from four years ago; when Clinton called the first Obama campaign the “biggest fairy tale” he’d ever seen.
Clinton and Obama are now the last two Democrats to win two terms. 
The call also sets up some nice speculation about whether Obama will help his Vice President Biden or a certain outgoing Secretary of State in the 2016 election. 
Ed Henry currently serves as Fox News Channel's (FNC) chief White House correspondent.
He joined the network in June 2011.
Nov.
7, 2012: President Barack Obama speaks at the election night party at McCormick Place in Chicago. (AP)
The key reason for my bum prediction is that I mistakenly believed that the 2008 surge in black, Latino, and young voter turnout would recede in 2012 to “normal” levels.
Didn’t happen.
These high levels of minority and young voter participation are here to stay.
And, with them, a permanent reshaping of our nation’s politics.
In 2012, 13% of the vote was cast by blacks.
In 04, it was 11%.
This year, 10% was Latino.
In ’04 it was 8%.
This time, 19% was cast by voters under 30 years of age.
In ’04 it was 17%.
Taken together, these results swelled the ranks of Obama’s three-tiered base by five to six points, accounting fully for his victory.
I derided the media polls for their assumption of what did, in fact happen: That blacks, Latinos, and young people would show up in the same numbers as they had in 2008.
I was wrong.
They did.
The key reason for my bum prediction is that I mistakenly believed that the 2008 surge in black, Latino, and young voter turnout would recede in 2012 to “normal” levels.
Didn’t happen.
These high levels of minority and young voter participation are here to stay.
And, with them, a permanent reshaping of our nation’s politics.
But the more proximate cause of my error was that I did not take full account of the impact of hurricane Sandy and of Governor Chris Christie’s bipartisan march through New Jersey arm in arm with President Obama.
Not to mention Christe's fawning promotion of Obama's presidential leadership.
It made all the difference.
A key element of Romney’s appeal, particularly after the first debate, was his ability to govern with Democrats in Massachusetts.
Obama’s one-party strident approach, so much the opposite of what he pledged in his first national speech in 2004, had turned voters off.
But by working seamlessly with an acerbic Republican Governor like Christie, Obama was able to blunt Romney’s advantage in this crucial area.
Sandy, in retrospect, stopped Romney’s post-debate momentum.
She was, indeed, the October Surprise.
She also stopped the swelling concern over the murders in Benghazi and let Obama get away with his coverup in which he pretended that a terrorist attack was, in fact, just a spontaneous demonstration gone awry.
Obama is the first president in modern times to win re-election by a smaller margin than that by which he was elected in the first place.
McKinley, Woodrow Wilson, FDR, Eisenhower, Nixon, Reagan, and Clinton all increased their re-election vote share significantly.
Obama’s dropped from a 7 point margin over McCain to a 1 point margin over Romney.
That he could get re-elected despite his dismal record is a tribute to his brilliant campaign staff and the shifting demographics of America.
This is not your father’s United States and the Republican tilt toward white middle aged and older voters is ghettoizing the party so that even bad economic times are not enough to sway the election.
By the time you finish with the various demographic groups the Democrats win, you almost have a majority in their corner.
Count them: Blacks cast 13% of the vote and Obama won them 12-1.
Latinos cast 10% and Obama carried them by 7-3.
Under 30 voters cast 19% of the vote and Obama swept them by 12-7.
Single white women cast 18% of the total vote and Obama won them by 12-6.
There is some overlap among these groups, of course, but without allowing for any, Obama won 43-17 before the first married white woman or man over 30 cast their vote.
(Lets guess that if we eliminate duplication, the Obama margin would be 35-13) Having conceded these votes, Romney would have had to win over two-thirds of the rest of the vote to win.
He almost did.
But not quite.
If Romney couldn’t manage this trick against Obama in the current economy, no Republican could.
But that doesn't mean we just give up.
Obama barely won this election and we still have a Republican House of Representatives.
We still have the ability - and more important, the responsibility - to fight to keep this great country as we know it and love it.
We must stop Obama's socialist agenda.
That's our job for the next four years.
We cannot allow Obama to magnify his narrow victory into a mandate for larger government, bigger spending, and less freedom.
This is not a call for gridlock.
If Obama moves to the center and proposes moderate measures, we should support them.
But that's unlikely.
Dick Morris is a Fox News contributor and author.
His latest book is "Here Come the Black Helicopters: UN Global Governance and the Loss of Freedom." Visit his website: www.dickmorris.com and follow him on Twitter@DickMorrisTweet
Click here to sign up to get all of Dick's videos emailed to you.
This 2012 presidential race is one of a kind.
History will crown it the year of the debates.
And it is not just that the three presidential debates shook up the race and put Republican Mitt Romney back in the game.
The history making element of the 2012 debates is that this year they became an interactive social media event attracting massive audiences.
They rivaled the Super Bowl and Wrestlemania in audience size and lust for combat because Americans for the first time had the communal experience of scoring each debate in real time.
On Twitter and blogs the debates were scored minute by minute by grandma, the kids and everyone else in the living room.
And stars from Hollywood to media personalities, and politicians joined in the fun with the folks at home.
The whole nation competed for the best one-liners, the perfect put-down or come back as the debate was taking place.
Trying to appear presidential, above the cage-match mentality with a sober, thoughtful, reserved approach does not work when the social media world wants zingers that mock your opponent.
President Obama lost the first debate for failing to satisfy the big crowd by refusing to draw blood.
Mitt Romney similarly lost the last debate for failing to take the fight to the president on foreign affairs.
The second debate, with the candidates looking on the verge of a fist-fight, interrupting each other and calling out false claims was the first true debate by the new rules for this era.
During these debates, Twitter gave us much more than “Hashtags” for Big Bird, Binders and Bayonets.
Twitter has given birth to an entirely new debate experience that I believe will be the new norm for presidential debates from here on.
 .
I saw this historic shift firsthand at each of the four debate sites.
I was genuinely surprised that so many of my colleagues – honest, solid, hardworking journalists - were not actually watching the debate on television or their computer screens.
Instead, their eyes were perpetually glued to their iPads, Blackberrys and iPhones reading what other people were saying about the debate in Twitter Feeds and Facebook posts.
That instantaneous scoring distorted the reality of the debates for the journalists and the surrogates in the spin room.
The focus was on the put-downs, the one-liners and the expectations of the folks doing the tweets and it dictated what was said on television immediately after the debates.
Twitter reports that there were 6.5 Million tweets tonight during the final 90 minutes presidential debate, 7.2 million tweets during the second debate in New York and a whopping 10.3 million tweets during the first debate in Denver.
These metrics made the first debate the most tweeted political event in the six-year history of the social networking site.
Prior to that, Obama’s DNC Acceptance Speech in Charlotte this summer had been the most-tweeted political event.
Twitter was created in 2006 and now reports over 500 million users worldwide.
Going into this year’s debates the conventional political wisdom from political scientists and journalists was that debates don’t really matter.
The only time any debate clearly made a difference was in 1960, when Americans saw the two major party candidates square off on television for the first time in history.
The image of a sweaty Richard Nixon with a five o’clock shadow hurt the Republican badly.
In the 13 presidential contests since then it is hard to make the case that any presidential debate performances influenced enough voters to determine the winner of a presidential election.
There have been moments: Gerald Ford’s mistaken judgment about Soviet influence over Poland; George H.W
Bush looking at his watch as if he couldn’t wait to get out of there; and Al Gore’s sighing in dismissive regard for George W.
Bush.
The power of social media to create a distorted, avalanche of public opinion about what happened during a debate can be best seen in the first contest between Gov.
Romney and President Obama.
Much as people who heard the Nixon-Kennedy debate on radio said they thought Nixon won, I thought the contest a draw or even an Obama win because I closed out the interactive world and simply listened and watched what the candidates said during that first debate.
The day after, I wrote on FoxNews.com “I just didn’t see the overwhelming, game-changing victory for Mitt Romney that his supporters are touting all over television and the Internet today
I didn’t see the humiliating defeat for President Obama that some liberals saw as they began their bellyaching about how President Obama has lost his momentum and could now lose the election.” 
Fact-checking of claims such as Romney’s assertion that his 5 trillion tax plan wouldn’t cost 5 trillion dollars could not keep up with the fact that he said it and President Obama did not throw it back at him by accusing him of a lie.
The perception that coalesced around that first debate turned the election from a likely Obama win to a dead heat.
It was as if he had garbled his words, lost his thoughts and made factual errors – none of which occurred.
But it nonetheless moved the polls in a big way.
The Pew poll showed this dramatic reversal most clearly.
According to Pew, before the first debate, President Obama led Romney by eight points, 51 to 43.
 Among women voters, Obama was outperforming Romney by 18 points – 56 to 38.
 After the Denver debate, Pew showed Romney leading Obama by four points, 49 to 45.
Among women after the debate, the race was a dead heat, 47 to 47.
The perception that Romney won the first debate was a byproduct of this new media experience.
Even though Obama won the two subsequent debates, it was not enough to dislodge the initial perception and he could lose the election because of it.
 Welcome to the new political order.
This is an important election year and communities of color will play a huge role in deciding the outcome in any number of races across the country.
The NAACP is holding its 103rd annual convention in Houston this week and guess which presidential candidate—Barack Obama or Mitt Romney—is scheduled to show up in Texas to address the nation’s oldest and largest civil rights organization.
It is Romney, the lily-white presumptive Republican nominee, who is traveling to Houston to make a major speech to this important black audience, while the country’s first African-American president is skipping this year’s NAACP confab in order to avoid having to confront some uncomfortable questions about the worsening state of black America under his administration.
At first glance, Obama’s decision to snub the NAACP and Romney’s determination to spend valuable campaign time courting the black vote doesn’t seem to make much sense.
According to conventional wisdom, Obama should have a lock on the black vote.
After all, nearly 96 percent of black voters cast their ballots for him in 2008, while 55 percent of white votes went for John McCain.
Put bluntly, Obama would not be president today without black support.
Obama still polls in the mid-90’s among African-American voters, and yet Romney has correctly perceived a little-recognized softness in Obama’s black support.
Romney believes that he has the opportunity to make significant inroads in the president’s once-solid black base.
According to my reporting, Romney’s campaign managers hope to cut into Obama’s black vote by three or four percentage points—a big enough margin to make a critical difference in such crucial swing states as North Carolina.
Romney is going to the NAACP meeting to lay down a marker in Obama’s base constituency.
If Romney’s calculations are correct—and I believe they are—a reduction in the black vote of that magnitude could cost Obama the election this time around.
As a result, Romney is going to the NAACP meeting to lay down a marker in Obama’s base constituency.
Romney’s assessment looks pretty sound.
To begin with, while the overall unemployment rate has held steady at 8.2 percent for the nation as a whole, black unemployment has continued to increase
Last month it rose to more than 14 percent, which is by far the highest of any voting block in America.
Among residents in many inner cities like Detroit, black unemployment runs as high as 18.1 percent.
During the Obama presidency, the number of Americans on food stamps has skyrocketed to 46 million; many of these people are single black mothers and their children.
The wealth gap between whites and blacks has continued to grow.
And the black homeownership rate is the lowest it’s been in years while the foreclosure rate has soared. 
Many socially conservative church-going blacks are deeply upset with Obama’s endorsement of gay marriage.
Recently, the president refused to meet with a group representing the 1,300-member Coalition of African-American Pastors to discuss the group’s opposition to same-sex marriage.
“By embracing gay marriage, President Obama is leading the country down an immoral path,” said the Reverend William Owens, president of the coalition.
This isn’t the first time Obama has slighted the black community.
As I reported in my book, “The Amateur: Barack Obama in the White House,” Obama has largely ignored his black base and has never acknowledged his debt to the African-Americans business people in Chicago who helped launch his political career.
As Hermene Hartman, the publisher of N’DIGO, Chicago’s leading African-American magazine, and the past president of the Alliance of Business Leaders and Entrepreneurs, a powerful group of African-Americans in Chicago, told me: “Barack is not necessarily known for his loyalty.”
“You have to start with the basic understanding that the African-American community is frustrated with Barack Obama,” she said.
“With Obama’s election to the White House, we lived on romance, pride, and historical significance.
That’s what 2008 was all about.
It was Doctor King’s dream come true.
Obama was perceived by African-Americans as a bright shining star, as hope, possibility, beauty, dignity, and an incredible family.
“We lived on that image for quite some time, but now the romance is gone and we have to face reality,” she continued.
“The question that African-Americans are faced with is the same as all Americans—are you better off now than you were four years ago? And the answer is no.
“President Obama has courted gays and the Hispanic vote, but he has largely ignored the needs of African-Americans.
He has taken the black vote for granted, because he believes we have nowhere else to go.
The message is: Barack is black and therefore you will automatically vote for him.
“And this presents a real opportunity for Mitt Romney.
He should focus on the black middle class and the black business class.
He should remind them that Obama ran on the slogan of change, but that not all change is good.
Romney should articulate to African-Americans that this is a capitalistic country and that, as a businessman, he can help fuel innovation, improve black schools, get jobs for inner-city people, and turn around this economy.
If he does all that, he has a real chance of proving to blacks that he’s the candidate who will really fight for them.”
Edward Klein is the former editor-in-chief of The New York Times Magazine.
His latest book is "Blood Feud: The Clintons vs.
the Obamas" (Regnery 2014).
His previous book "The Amateur: Barack Obama in the White House" (Regnery 2012) was a bestseller and is no available in paperback.
The night of the Iowa caucuses Karl Rove and I got entrance poll information at the same time as we sat on the Fox News Election coverage set in New York.
Entrance polls are for caucuses – exit polls are what they do in primaries.
Within a few minutes of the first caucus results we were both busy trying to figure out who was going to win the Iowa event that would start someone on their way to the GOP nomination.
Karl and I had not been on air much together.
Truth be told I can’t think of a single thing we had ever agreed on.
I had vehemently opposed the war in Iraq – he had been a senior advisor to the president that led us into it.
I ran the Dean campaign in 2004 to end the war and lost – he had run the reelection campaign for George Bush and won.
I had railed against the Bush preemptive doctrine – for all I knew Rove might as well have written it.
To say I thought I was sitting on the set with Darth Vader would be an understatement.
I am not sure he felt much kinder things about me.
Karl was turned slightly away from me going over precinct results for completed caucuses and scratching out the math by hand on multiple sheets of paper – I was turned slightly the other way doing the same.
Within 5 minutes of receiving the entrance poll numbers and the first early precinct results we turned to each other to compare notes.
I said “I can’t believe it but Rick Santorum is going to eke past Romney and win this thing.” Karl looked down at his sheets of equations and said he couldn’t believe it either – that Santorum was going to give Romney a dogfight no one had really expected – but he had Romney with a slight mathematical advantage
The two of us had calculated the race in minutes to within a tenth of a percent of each other.
We would work through the night – Karl would identify the two precincts out of all the precincts in all the 99 counties that night that would decide the outcome. 
Chris Wallace started to call us the "Space Cowboys" on the air and held up reams of our calculations to show the audience why he had given us the name.
Through it all our calculations would swing slightly back and forth.
At one point my math showed that Karl was right and Romney would win.
Minutes later Rove would run some new precinct results and come to the conclusion that I had been right and Santorum would win.
Later we would realize that we were both right.
Iowa in the end would be decided by fewer than a 100 votes -- both of us had been arguing narrowly on each side of a 100 vote margin of error.
I learned then that no matter how different Karl Rove and I were or how wide our differences on the war, tax breaks for the wealthy or superpacs (I hated them) we had a very similar way we looked at numbers and calculated election results -- so similar we often came up with the same numbers.
It was eerie how close we mirrored each other’s projections and we didn’t BS each other or spin.
As the primaries moved forward it got to the point where we ran through the counties together.
One of us calling out a county we wanted to look at – the other calling out results – then one of us pounding the numbers into a calculator or computer and offering an opinion of what they meant – “that’s not good for Newt”, “Romney is doing better with catholics” – in state after state we got it right and usually ahead of when we could say it on the air.
We are not the Fox News Decision Desk and we can’t call a state on the air before they call it – but often we would have if we could.
The Decision Desk had to be certain – had to be careful – The Space Cowboys? We often muttered into our mics, “why haven’t you guys called this?” Frustrated that we knew what was going to happen but knowing they were right to wait.
Sometime before the conventions I was doing some focus groups in Ohio when I saw the dam break against Mitt Romney among undecided voters.
They were undecided but when you asked them why they were not voting for Romney they would volunteer that they were worried about Bain Capital or didn’t like him hiding his tax returns, or that Romney wanted the auto industry to go bankrupt – fair or not – the unanswered negatives on Romney had taken hold – and I knew in my gut Ohio was over – Romney would never win it.
A few days later I was in Chicago.
David Axelrod was in Iowa traveling with the President but I got an email from him saying he would be back the next day and if I stayed we could get together.
When I mentioned to Ax that I thought Obama was going to win Ohio and that Romney was a terrible candidate for the Midwest, he told me he had always thought the same thing and that their polling for weeks had had the President ahead by 4 to 5 points always outside the margin of error in Ohio.
I knew they were building a massive early vote and get out the vote effort in Ohio and other key states.
Armed with my focus group experience, Axelrod’s comments reinforced my own confidence that Ohio was moving solidly in Obama’s direction.
By now Karl Rove and I were doing an electoral map projection every other Monday or so with Bret Baier who anchored Special Report on Fox News.
We tended to agree on what the polling was saying about most states – but Ohio was among those we rarely agreed.
I almost always thought it should be lean Obama – Karl almost always thought it should be a toss up.
To be fair though there were weeks when Karl made it a lean Obama state on his map.
But at some point it dawned on me that not once had there been a single week where anyone made a case for making Ohio lean Romney.
Then one day at the Democratic Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina the Obama team invited the Fox News contingent in for a briefing on what to expect from the convention line-up.
When we walked into the briefing Jim Messina, the President’s campaign manager, and I started to talk as others found their chairs and he whispered to me that he had seen two new internal Democratic polls in Ohio that showed 9 point leads for Obama in the state and that the President’s lead had expanded since I had seen Axelrod a few weeks earlier.
I was certain whoever won Ohio was going to be the next President of the United States and I had now become pretty sure Ohio and the Presidency would be won by Barack Obama.
For four years the Obama campaign had been working on their Ohio firewall and it was becoming clear it was going to hold.
Even after the first debate when polls everywhere showed the race tighten Ohio proved stubborn for Romney.
Things got closer in Ohio too – but Obama always held his lead there.
Back in April Karl Rove had outlined the 3-2-1 path of states Romney needed to put together to win 270 electoral votes and the presidency.
Romney had to win all the states John McCain had won in 2008 against Obama.
Then he had to win three states the GOP had traditionally won that Obama had taken from them in 2008 – Indiana, North Carolina and Virginia.
If he won those three Romney had to win both Ohio and Florida and if he won those two he had to win one out of the other 5 or so remaining swing states.
The Obama campaign had set out to block that path by mounting an all out campaign in all the 3-2-1 states except for Indiana.
Winning just one of the critical 3-2 states would make it not impossible but very tough for Romney to get to 270 electoral votes – winning Ohio would be a huge stop for Obama.
Every Monday on Special Report I would argue that Romney was not going to win Ohio.
But other after the first debate other paths to 270 for Romney began to open up.
Karl would argue that Romney could win Colorado and Wisconsin or another combination of swing states that included Wisconsin and that would make up for an Ohio loss (plan B).
And the Romney campaign late in the game started talking about taking Pennsylvania (plan C).
The thing that was so different about this election was that no matter how confident Axelrod and Messina were about all the swing states or I was about Ohio – Karl Rove and Rich Beeson or whoever you talked to on the GOP side was just as confident about Ohio or Virginia or other key swing states for Romney.
Both sides were convinced their model was right.
About three weeks out from election day it hit me whoever was right was going to win over 300 electoral votes.
The race was too close – if Romney’s model was right he wasn’t tied in all those states he was slightly ahead in them and would win them all.
But I was sure Obama’s model was right.
I knew something about the new metrics from the Dean campaign I managed in 2004 – politics had changed – undecided voters don’t break automatically to the challenger anymore, targeting is better, social networks have changed organizing and information flow and the demographics of the nation were moving away from the Republican party.
If the Obama model was right he would sweep the swing states.
Someone was wrong and I was pretty sure it was the guys in the Grand Old Party.
On the Monday before the election when Bret Baier asked me for my final electoral map showing what I thought would happen the next day I projected 303 electoral votes for Obama – projecting every swing state to Obama except for North Carolina and Florida.
Saying “if Obama’s model is right I think he will take Florida too”.
I am still kicking myself for being such a chicken – I knew they would all go one way but I had chickened out on Florida.
Axelrod had even sent me an email urging me to take a flyer on Florida – he thought they were going to surprise there – but I had chickened out of calling it.
No excuses.
Can’t explain it .
Would anyone believe 332?.
On election night for some reason neither Rove nor I can get into the Ohio Secretary of State’s website to get any county data – or any data for that matter.
We both tore into the Florida and Virginia election data the second their polls close.
Karl started calling out GOP leaning counties in Florida and I started to call out the percentages Obama and Romney were getting in them.
Rove quickly pointed out that Romney was performing two percentage points ahead of the 2008 McCain percentage in these counties.
I called out Palm Beach, Broward and Miami-Dade and the Obama and Romney percentages in those huge Democratic leaning counties – and early on Obama was performing 2.8 points ahead of where he did in 2008
Obama was winning Hillsborough county by 6 points! It was going to be close – really close.
It's was almost like that first night in Iowa we had together at the beginning of the whole thing – Karl convinced Romney would pull it out by a few votes – and I was convinced Obama had Florida.
Florida! What a chicken – I started kicking myself some more.
Plan A is all that is left for Romney – he has to win Ohio, Virginia and Florida.
All are 3-2 states and when one goes so too goes the Presidency.
Win them all or Romney never gets to Colorado or any of the 1 states.
Chris Wallace off air is begging us to get into the Ohio Secretary of State website but Karl and I get the same error messages we have gotten all night long.
At that moment two emails come in at the exact same time.
Chris Wallace received an email that he would read on the air from someone high up in the Romney campaign – that email says that Romney will win Florida by 10,000 votes.
Virginia is tight and Ohio is moving their way.
At that same moment I receive an email report from an Obama contact insisting that Obama will win Florida and with it the Presidency, Virginia is close but they will win it – but (and this is a direct quote) “Ohio is scary”.
Chris reads his email to Karl and me off air – I read my email to the two of them.
And then I turn to Chris Wallace and said – “wow wouldn’t it be the ironies of ironies if we ended up calling Ohio for Romney and everyone thought he won the presidency and then it turned out that Obama won Florida and won reelection that way instead?”.
Karl and I scrambled to see if we could get into the Ohio Secretary of State’s website again.
Karl yelled out that he had gotten in.
And just at that moment we hear in our ear Bret Baier declare that the Fox News Decision Desk has called the state of Ohio for Barack Obama.
We were separated from the main anchor desk that Bret Baier and Megyn Kelly hosted the election coverage from by a good 30 feet or so – but it felt like miles.
I blurted out to Chris Wallace and Karl Rove, “Do they understand the implications of that call?” I felt calling Ohio was tantamount to calling the presidency and thought we would be seeing blazing graphics declaring Obama reelected.
Just as I asked the question I realized immediately why we were not seeing it – I knew Florida was gone to Obama – the Decision Desk may have been pretty sure it was going that way but from their perch Obama was not over 270 electoral votes yet – neither Virginia nor Florida had been called.
Chris looked at me like I was on Mars and said “Of course they understand what this means – but we have to wait for those other states to call it”.
Just then Karl Rove’s phone rang it was someone in the Romney campaign….you know the rest.
Mitt Romney conceded the U.S
presidential election to incumbent Barack Obama in a brief address to supporters here at 1:00 a.m
Wednesday.
Television networks had called Tuesday's election for the Democrat shortly after 11:00 p.m., but the Republican hopeful's campaign said he was not ready to concede.
Romney made his concession speech at a Boston hotel after telephoning the president to congratulate him on his victory.
"We have given our all to this campaign," the former governor said.
"I so wish that I had been able to fulfill your hopes to lead your country in another direction."
The networks made their projections based on Obama's leads in the swing states of Ohio and Iowa.
With 55 percent of the ballots counted in Iowa, Obama led his Republican challenger by 55 percent to 44 percent.
In Ohio, the Democrat was ahead by 50 percent to 49 percent with 73 percent of votes tabulated.
In the past 50 years, no one has secured the White House without winning the Buckeye State's 18 electoral votes.
"This happened because of you.
Thank you," Obama told his supporters on Twitter after the networks projected him as the winner.
The nation's first black president will again face a divided Congress when he begins his second term in January, as media projections showed the GOP retaining control of the House of Representatives and Democrats maintaining a majority in the Senate.
EFE.
Oct.
31, 2012: New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg talks to traders at the New York Stock Exchange in New York.
Bloomberg backed President Barack Obama over Republican Mitt Romney on Thursday, saying the president will bring leadership critically needed to fight climate change in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. (AP)
Bloomberg's announcement comes as New York City and much of the East Coast work to rebound after the devastating blow dealt by Hurricane Sandy, a storm that Bloomberg said may be an example of the havoc wreaked by man-made climate change.
"The devastation that Hurricane Sandy brought to New York City and much of the Northeast -- in lost lives, lost homes and lost business -- brought the stakes of Tuesday’s presidential election into sharp relief," Bloomberg said Thursday in an opinion article he wrote for Bloomberg.com.
"Our climate is changing.
And while the increase in extreme weather we have experienced in New York City and around the world may or may not be the result of it, the risk that it might be -- given this week’s devastation -- should compel all elected leaders to take immediate action."
Obama set climate change legislation as one of his goals on the campaign trail in 2008, but the legislative measures he proposed, the so-called cap-and trade plan, never made it through Congress.
Bloomberg, while commending Mitt Romney for his work on the issue as Massachusetts governor, said he was concerned that Romney has since "reversed course" on that and other issues.
"If the 1994 or 2003 version of Mitt Romney were running for president, I may well have voted for him because, like so many other independents, I have found the past four years to be, in a word, disappointing," Bloomberg wrote.
Obama issued a statement welcoming the endorsement and pledging to continue to stand with New York in its time of need.
"While we may not agree on every issue, Mayor Bloomberg and I agree on the most important issues of our time -- that the key to a strong economy is investing in the skills and education of our people, that immigration reform is essential to an open and dynamic democracy, and that climate change is a threat to our children's future, and we owe it to them to do something about it," Obama said.
"As president, he devoted little time and effort to developing and sustaining a coalition of centrists, which doomed hope for any real progress on illegal guns, immigration, tax reform, job creation and deficit reduction," Bloomberg said.
"And rather than uniting the country around a message of shared sacrifice, he engaged in partisan attacks and has embraced a divisive populist agenda focused more on redistributing income than creating it."
Even so, the mayor praised Obama for "some important victories on issues that will help define our future."
Both Obama and Republican challenger Mitt Romney had eagerly sought the nod from Bloomberg, an independent and former Republican who didn't endorse a presidential candidate in 2008.
While there isn't the same buzz as there was in 2008 as the world watched America elect its first African-American president, interest is high, though international papers are projecting a mixed view of American politics. 
France's Le Figaro pointed to a certain perceived paralysis in the American political system, in an editorial which reads: "There is perfect equality between the Republicans and the Democrats.
Romney against Obama.
It reveals the blockage of that political system.
This famous 'gridlock' has increased the historical mistrust of the country to the government and the state.
Obama did not succeed to get out of this trap."
Watch the results pour in like a pro with FoxNews.com's Election Command Center
When asked about how Europeans view the candidates, Senior Fellow for Transatlantic Affairs at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London Dana Allin claimed that many Europeans would prefer to see Obama re-elected, even if the sky-high expectations for him were not fulfilled.
"As for Romney," Allin said, "those Europeans who paid attention may have noticed that one of his standard campaign lines has been to accuse Obama of trying to turn America into Europe, of which he has a highly distorted view of some kind of socialist dystopia.
 Europe does have its problems, mostly tied to a banking and currency crisis, and misguided attempts to escape the crisis through counter-productive austerity.
In any event, repeated Europe-bashing was unlikely to endear Romney to the majority of Europeans."
For now, most foreign government officials are keeping mum on America's vote.
However, a senior Conservative Party official in Britain, Ian Duncan Smith, spoke out Monday on what he called the British media's "demonization" of Romney, saying that the U.S
election had been "appallingly reported" in Britain.
In Israel, the stakes in this election feel very high.
 A source well-versed in the politics and the press of that country said that Israel never gets involved in U.S
elections.
But this time it has, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu widely seen to be supporting Romney -- though not officially.
Israelis in general are more supportive of Romney, even though Israel's defense establishment has praised Obama's security cooperation with Israel.
 .
Which states have Obama and Romney visited the most? Check our Candidate Tracker to find out.
Orlando Radice of the Jewish Chronicle said, "the majority of Israelis said in a poll that they would support a Romney win."  Radice went on, "Romney's harder stance on Iran plays well in Israel
The issue of Iran is a priority for most people in Israel.
It is the issue of the day." Meanwhile, 80,000 Americans living in Israel have already voted -- it's the largest number of Americans voting outside of the United States
Studies show 80 percent of them have voted for Romney.
When it comes to the Arab world, analysts say the Gulf states generally prefer Republican presidents, while many of the other parts of the Arab world see a closer ally in Obama.
 But not everyone.
Zaki Chehab, of "Arabs Today," told Fox News, for him, it's all the same.
"I am someone who has followed all the elections in the United States for the past 25 years.
 This time, I have no interest," Chehab said, adding: "People had high hopes for Barack Obama when he was elected, but he was no different from George W Bush.
People thought he would be different from the others but he is the same when it comes to Israel.
We don't expect a U.S
president to stand next to us, or to be pro-Arab, but we just want fairness."
Take your best shot at predicting the final electoral map for the 2012 Presidential Election.
An Iranian professor who spoke to Fox News from Tehran had a similar take. Seyed Mohammad Marandi said, "For many Iranians they don't feel much difference between the two candidates
Both Romney and Obama have policies aimed at ordinary Iranians by trying to shut down Iran's Central Bank and making it difficult for Iranians to import some food and medicine.
Both candidates are looked upon negatively."
Meantime, Russia's Electoral Commission, having come under its own scrutiny in the last parliamentary and presidential elections, has issued a report calling the American election system unfair, with the Voice of Russia saying that "while the U.S
goes out of its way to impose its democracy model on other countries, its domestic electoral practices are nowhere near international norms." 
The view of the candidates themselves, from Moscow, according to Masha Lipman at the Carnegie Moscow Center, is that behind the scenes, most Russian politicians actually prefer a Republican president because they find Republicans easier to do business with. 
Obama put a lot of energy into his policy of "resetting" relations with Moscow at the beginning of his term.
 Lipman said there have been many accomplishments linked to the "reset," but, "it has not overcome the foundation of U.S.-Russia relations which has a strong element of distrust that Russia feels for America
You may have had achievements, but once you put them past you, the agenda becomes exhausted and differences come to the fore." 
Whoever wins may face a new world order in the Middle East, but will have to overcome a situation that in some ways is a throwback to the Cold War in Russia.
Amy Kellogg currently serves as a Senior Foreign Affairs Correspondent based in the London bureau.
She joined Fox News Channel (FNC) in 1999 as a Moscow-based correspondent.
Follow her on Twitter: @kellogglondon.
Oct.
16, 2012: President Barack Obama, left, and Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney address the audience during the second presidential debate at Hofstra University. (AP/Reuters Pool)
It was no coincidence that in the foreign policy debate Mitt Romney and Barack Obama each repeatedly pledged to protect Israel’s security.
Both men recognize that the Jewish vote could determine the outcome of this election.
But how is it possible that a constituency comprising 2 percent of the population could make the difference?.
First, Jews are concentrated in the states that count most in the electoral college.
The top 10 states with the largest Jewish populations account for 244 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency.
Third, Jews are major contributors to political campaigns.
They typically are top fundraisers and active party workers.
Obama and Romney each have a coterie of close advisers and donors who are Jews.
Though dwarfed by realtors, lawyers, unions and other major contributors to political action committees, pro-Israel contributors rank 47th out of 80 “industries” monitored by the Center for Responsive Politics.
So far, in 2012, pro-Israel individual, PAC, and soft money contributions total more than $10 million, with nearly two-thirds going to Democrats.
The contributions reflect the fact that Jews have Democratic DNA.
Since 1916, the average vote for Democrats has been 71 percent compared to 24 percent for Republicans.
George H.W
Bush was the last Republican to get more than 30 percent.
Polls indicate Jews’ top priority, like most Americans, is the economy, but these underestimate the importance Israel plays in the voting decisions of many Jews.
The percentage who vote solely on the basis of a candidate’s policy on Israel may be relatively small, but most Jews do take it into consideration and several presidents have learned this to their detriment. 
Take, for example, George H.W
Bush, who received 35 percent of the Jewish vote because he was expected to carry on the pro-Israel policies of Ronald Reagan.
When, instead, his policies were viewed as harming Israel, his proportion of the Jewish vote sank to 11 percent. 
Similarly, Jimmy Carter’s share of the Jewish vote fell from 71 percent in 1976 to 45 percent in 1980, despite his role in the Egypt-Israel peace treaty, because Jews did not trust his views on Israel.
On the Republican side, Jews feared George W.
Bush would be as critical of Israel as his father and gave him only 19 percent of their votes in 2000.
Four years later, he was considered very pro-Israel and his share of the vote jumped to 24 percent.
In 2008, starting with a solid Jewish base, and aided by the declining economy and the choice of Sarah Palin as John McCain’s vice presidential candidate, Barack Obama easily won 78 percent of the Jewish vote, just short of the 80 percent Bill Clinton received in 1992.
Jews now can judge Obama’s record.
After his first two years, Obama’s policies were widely viewed as bad for Israel.
His settlement freeze demand was unpopular and backfired, he failed to bring the Palestinians to the negotiating table and he treated Israel’s prime minister with thinly disguised disdain. 
According to Gallup, Obama’s popularity among Jews fell precipitously from 83 percent in January 2009 to 54 percent in September 2011.
An American Jewish Committee (AJC) poll the same month found that 53 percent of Jews disapproved of Obama’s handling of US-Israel relations.
In January 2011, Obama’s policy toward Israel changed almost 180 degrees.
He began to praise Israel at every opportunity and pledge his support for its security.
He stopped talking about settlements, going so far as to veto a UN Security Resolution to declare them illegal, provided Israel with more weapons and enhanced military cooperation.
By April 2012, the AJC poll reported Jewish approval of his handling of Israel relations had jumped from 40 to 58 percent and 61 percent favored Obama over Romney.
Gallup showed an even more dramatic increase in support to 68 percent.
The election may be decided on whether the Jewish vote for Obama continues its upward trajectory or was adversely effected by the presidential debates, Romney’s promises or recent Middle East events.
Romney will not win the Jewish vote, but he can chip away at Obama’s support.
If he can cut Obama’s share of the Jewish vote to 65 percent, the president could lose 83,500 votes in Florida, 41,500 in Pennsylvania and 19,000 in Ohio according to Obama’s Jewish outreach professional, Ira Forman.
Obama must also be mindful of history.
The last two Democrats to receive less than 70 percent of the Jewish vote – Dukakis and Mondale – were both defeated.
Mitchell Bard is the author of "The Arab Lobby: The Invisible Alliance That Undermines America's Interests in the Middle East" (HarperCollins 2010) and "Israel Matters" (Behrman House 2012).
Oct.
25, 2012: A sign attracts job-seekers during a job fair at the Marriott Hotel in Colonie, N.Y. (AP)
The final monthly jobs report before Election Day offered a mixed bag of economic evidence that quickly became political putty for the presidential candidates, with the unemployment rate ticking up to 7.9 percent but the economy adding a better-than-expected 171,000 jobs. 
At the same time, the number of unemployed grew by 170,000, roughly the same amount -- to 12.3 million. 
The October numbers allow President Obama to argue the economy is technically growing under his watch.
But they also allow Mitt Romney to argue that the new jobs are not making much of a dent in the unemployment problem. Both campaigns quickly set to work putting their spin on data that, if nothing else, underscores the slow pace of the recovery. 
The rate was 7.8 percent the month Obama took office
"Today's increase in the unemployment rate is a sad reminder that the economy is at a virtual standstill," Romney said in a separate written statement.
"When I'm president, I'm going to make real changes that lead to a real recovery, so that the next four years are better than the last." 
Former Bureau of Labor Statistics chief Keith Hall told Fox Business Network that at this rate, "we're still talking nine or 10 years" before the economy gets back to normal. 
But Obama, speaking in Hilliard, Ohio, pointed to the report as another sign the economy is moving in the right direction, despite the challenges remaining. 
Alan B.
Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said "today's employment report provides further evidence that the U.S
economy is continuing to heal from the wounds inflicted by the worst downturn since the Great Depression." 
The numbers stand as the last major economic report before Election Day, capping what has effectively been a two-year campaign focused largely on jobs -- or the lack of jobs. While the growth has been slow, over the long term the president can argue the economy has expanded, albeit modestly
Federal figures show that since October 2011, the number of unemployed has shrunk by 1.5 million despite the uptick last month
Still, that number does not count those not currently looking for work, and the latest report shows roughly 6.5 million people are in that category despite still wanting a job. 
The prior September jobs report came as a surprise, showing the unemployment rate dropping to 7.8 percent, dipping below 8 percent for the first time since Obama took office. However, economists on both sides of the aisle questioned the accuracy of the number, and Republicans continued to claim that job growth is not nearly where it needs to be. 
The October report showed the rate ticking up in part because more people were joining the workforce.
The report reflected growth across a number of sectors, including health care and retail and construction.
Mining, though, lost 9,000 jobs last month.
And average hourly earnings dropped by a penny, to $23.58. 
Obama has said all along that there's more work to do, but has argued that electing Romney would turn back the clock on the recovery. 
Still, the president said shortly after taking office that failing to right the economy in three years would mean a "one-term proposition." 
Ohio Sen.
Rob Portman, a top Romney surrogate, reminded voters that the 7.9 percent rate is far higher than what the administration initially predicted. 
"He promised sweeping reforms that would boost our hurting economy, including a trillion dollar stimulus package that would reduce unemployment to 5.4 percent and policies to reduce the deficit in half by now," he said. 
Romney has called for a new course, and has described the president as out of ideas.
On Thursday, he repeatedly mocked Obama for proposing a so-called Department of Business. 
"I just don't think another Cabinet chair is going to create the jobs that America needs," Romney said in Doswell, Va., part of a daylong swing through the battleground state. 
Mitt Romney’s campaign is moving straight into Pennsylvania after completing a three-contest primary sweep on Tuesday night, as he looks to close the deal in the Republican nominating contest by challenging Rick Santorum on his home turf.
Pennsylvania is just one of the five states voting in the next set of primaries on April 24.
Santorum, though, is portraying the contest as a game-changer – predicting victory in the delegate-heavy state he used to represent in Congress.
Santorum urged party leaders Tuesday night to let the rest of America have a chance to weigh in on the race, and claimed Pennsylvania would “kick off the second half” of that battle.
But with Santorum far down in the delegate count, Romney is looking to deprive his rival of that trophy.
His campaign plans to move resources into Pennsylvania, where Santorum leads in recent polls by single digits.
Following his primary wins Tuesday night in Wisconsin, Maryland and the District of Columbia, Romney is trying to pivot from Republican front-runner to presumptive nominee and emerge as the lone challenger to President Obama.
Romney, in some of his clearest language to date, used his victory speech in Milwaukee to map out what appeared to be his general election message.
He portrayed Obama as an enemy of business, himself as its promoter.
He portrayed Obama as the steward of a "government-centered society," himself as the champion of a revitalized "opportunity society."
In the most memorable line of the night, Romney accused "out-of-touch liberals like Barack Obama" of saying they want a strong economy while showing they "don't like" business. 
Romney also crossed a symbolic threshold Tuesday night, passing the halfway mark in his march toward the 1,144 delegate needed to clinch the nomination.
He now has over 650 delegates, more than twice the number Santorum claims. Romney will win most of the 92 delegates at stake Tuesday. 
Santorum, though, pledged to press on Tuesday night and outlined a path -- however narrow -- to victory in the nomination battle. 
He hammered the point that only half the total delegates available in the GOP contest have been awarded, and predicted the April 24 primary in his home state of Pennsylvania could turn the tide. 
"We have now reached the point where it's half-time," he told a Pennsylvania crowd, having long since left Wisconsin.
"Who's ready to charge out of the locker room in Pennsylvania for a strong second half?" .
Santorum continued to say Republicans need to pick somebody who can demonstrate a clear contrast with Obama in the fall. 
"We don't win by moving to the middle," he said, claiming Republicans win by getting the middle to "move to us." 
Though four other states are also voting on April 24, Santorum predicted a Pennsylvania win would effectively reset the mood. 
"The clock starts tonight," he said.
"After winning this state, the field looks a little different in May." 
According to the latest delegate tally, though, Romney is at 655 delegates.
Santorum is far back at 278, followed by Newt Gingrich at 135 and Ron Paul at 51.
Santorum would have to win an overwhelming majority of the remaining delegates to surpass Romney.
Even preventing Romney from hitting 1,144 before the convention is becoming increasingly difficult. 
Romney dominated the field in Tuesday's contests.
He appeared to have a double-digit lead over Santorum in Maryland, though his Wisconsin victory was a bit tighter.
He blew past Gingrich and Paul in D.C., where Santorum had failed to qualify for the ballot. 
With Romney moving ever-closer to the nomination, Obama's team is training its attention on the GOP front-runner.
His campaign launched a new TV ad blasting Romney for the first time by name -- accusing him of backing "Big Oil" at a time of high gas prices. 
Romney fired back in his Wisconsin speech, telling Americans that when they drive by the gas pump, "Ask yourself, 'Four more years of that?'".
Indeed, Romney continues to face questions about his appeal among the conservative base going forward.
Exit polls in the contests held Tuesday, though, showed the former Massachusetts doing well across several different demographic groups. 
In Maryland, he captured almost half of the Tea Party vote and won 61 percent of support among seniors. 
In Wisconsin, Romney saw some of the strongest support to date among those who describe themselves as very conservative.
Romney captured 46 percent support among those voters, compared with 40 percent for Santorum.
Though the campaign officially begins today with stops in the swing states of Ohio and Virginia, the president has been in campaign mode for months, traversing the country talking about election-issue topics.
In Ohio, he hit most of the major issues that have so far come to define the general election, including the economy, women's health, a college education and the U.S
military involvement overseas.
Reworking a 2008 campaign promise, Obama said he wants more citizens in the United States than anywhere else in the world to have a college degree by the end of the decade.
Rick Santorum, when he was still a GOP candidate, called Obama a "snob" for holding such views and said the president should instead be concerned about finding ways to create jobs for the unemployed.
Obama again mentioned the death of terrorist Usama bin Laden, under his administration, saying he is "no longer a threat," and suggested that a Republican if elected might limit women's access to reproductive health care.
Obama also argued the recession and prolonged recovery that have largely defined his first term began under the Bush administration while he was still campaigning four years ago.
The Republican National Committee responded after the Ohio speech, by saying Americans think one Obama term was enough.
"Four years ago President Obama set the goal posts with the question of 'will this country be better off four years from now?' Four years later, a crowd of his supporters gave him the answer so many Americans agree with -- a resounding no," said committee Chairman Reince Priebus. 
Obama won Ohio and Virginia in his 2008 election, and this will be at least his fourth visit this year to each of the states.
The president was joined on the campaign trial by first lady Michelle Obama, who spoke first in Ohio before the estimated crowd of 14,000.
No Republican has won the general election without winning Ohio, which has 18 electoral votes.
Romney  -- who started his campaign last summer and is now the likely GOP presidential nominee -- has campaigned in Ohio three times in the past several weeks and is scheduled to return with a town hall-style meeting Monday in Cleveland.
The president has already attended 124 fundraisers to get money for his cause, though Saturday officially kicks off the campaign.
Though Ohio and Virginia have jobless rates below the national average, the trips come amid polls that continue to show a close race and a downbeat Labor Department report Friday that showed the jobless rate at 8.1 percent in April, but only 115,000 jobs being added that month.
The most recent poll by Quinnipiac University showed Romney ahead in Ohio , 44 percent to 42 percent, within the poll's margin of error but a significant change since the school's March poll that had Obama leading by 6 percentage points.
Quinnipiac pollsters note two significant factors on how Romney cut into the president's lead.
"Now the de facto nominee, Romney is no longer being attacked by his fellow Republicans, who are closing ranks behind him.
Second, voter optimism about the economy has leveled off," they said.
The president will visit Virginia Commonwealth University for the other part of the Saturday trip, marking the second time in two days he has been in the state.
Obama spoke with students Friday at a northern Virginia high school.
A Washington Post poll released this week showed Obama leading Romney in Virginia 51 percent to 44 percent, among  registered voters, essentially the same numbers as a Post poll taken in April-May 2011.
Fox News Channel political analyst Dick Morris said Saturday the recent polls result are misleading because those surveyed should be un-registered voters, not likely voters.
"Obama will not get the undecided vote," he said.
Tonight, more than 200 years after a former colony won the right to determine its own destiny, the task of perfecting our union moves forward.
It moves forward because of you.
 It moves forward because you reaffirmed the spirit that has triumphed over war and depression, the spirit that has lifted this country from the depths of despair to the great heights of hope, the belief that while each of us will pursue our own individual dreams, we are an American family and we rise or fall together as one nation and as one people.
Tonight, in this election, you, the American people, reminded us that while our road has been hard, while our journey has been long, we have picked ourselves up, we have fought our way back, and we know in our hearts that for the United States of America the best is yet to come.
I want to thank every American who participated in this election ..
whether you voted for the very first time or waited in line for a very long time.
By the way, we have to fix that.
Whether you pounded the pavement or picked up the phone...
From George to Lenore to their son Mitt, the Romney family has chosen to give back to America through public service and that is the legacy that we honor and applaud tonight.
In the weeks ahead, I also look forward to sitting down with Governor Romney to talk about where we can work together to move this country forward.
I want to thank my friend and partner of the last four years, America's happy warrior, the best vice president anybody could ever hope for, Joe Biden.
And I wouldn't be the man I am today without the woman who agreed to marry me 20 years ago.
Let me say this publicly:  Michelle, I have never loved you more.
I have never been prouder to watch the rest of America fall in love with you, too, as our nation's first lady.
To the best campaign team and volunteers in the history of politics...
The best.
 The best ever.
 Some of you were new this time around, and some of you have been at my side since the very beginning.
But all of you are family.
 No matter what you do or where you go from here, you will carry the memory of the history we made together and you will have the life-long appreciation of a grateful president.
Thank you for believing all the way, through every hill, through every valley.
You lifted me up the whole way and I will always be grateful for everything that you've done and all the incredible work that you put in.
 I know that political campaigns can sometimes seem small, even silly.
 And that provides plenty of fodder for the cynics that tell us that politics is nothing more than a contest of egos or the domain of special interests.
 But if you ever get the chance to talk to folks who turned out at our rallies and crowded along a rope line in a high school gym, or saw folks working late in a campaign office in some tiny county far away from home, you'll discover something else.
You'll hear the determination in the voice of a young field organizer who's working his way through college and wants to make sure every child has that same opportunity.
You'll hear the pride in the voice of a volunteer who's going door to door because her brother was finally hired when the local auto plant added another shift.
You'll hear the deep patriotism in the voice of a military spouse whose working the phones late at night to make sure that no one who fights for this country ever has to fight for a job or a roof over their head when they come home.
That won't change after tonight, and it shouldn't.
 These arguments we have are a mark of our liberty.
 We can never forget that as we speak people in distant nations are risking their lives right now just for a chance to argue about the issues that matter, the chance to cast their ballots like we did today.
But despite all our differences, most of us share certain hopes for America's future.
 We want our kids to grow up in a country where they have access to the best schools and the best teachers.
A country that lives up to its legacy as the global leader in technology and discovery and innovation, with all the good jobs and new businesses that follow.
We want our children to live in an America that isn't burdened by debt, that isn't weakened by inequality, that isn't threatened by the destructive power of a warming planet.
We want to pass on a country that's safe and respected and admired around the world, a nation that is defended by the strongest military on earth and the best troops this -- this world has ever known.
But also a country that moves with confidence beyond this time of war, to shape a peace that is built on the promise of freedom and dignity for every human being.
 We believe in a generous America, in a compassionate America, in a tolerant America, open to the dreams of an immigrant's daughter who studies in our schools and pledges to our flag.
To the young boy on the south side of Chicago who sees a life beyond the nearest street corner.
To the furniture worker's child in North Carolina who wants to become a doctor or a scientist, an engineer or an entrepreneur, a diplomat or even a president -- that's the future we hope for.
 That's the vision we share.
 That's where we need to go -- forward.
By itself, the recognition that we have common hopes and dreams won't end all the gridlock or solve all our problems or substitute for the painstaking work of building consensus and making the difficult compromises needed to move this country forward.
 But that common bond is where we must begin.
And whether I earned your vote or not, I have listened to you, I have learned from you, and you've made me a better president.
 And with your stories and your struggles, I return to the White House more determined and more inspired than ever about the work there is to do and the future that lies ahead.
You elected us to focus on your jobs, not ours.
 And in the coming weeks and months, I am looking forward to reaching out and working with leaders of both parties to meet the challenges we can only solve together.
 Reducing our deficit.
 Reforming our tax code.
Fixing our immigration system.
 Freeing ourselves from foreign oil.
We've got more work to do.
But that doesn't mean your work is done.
 The role of citizen in our democracy does not end with your vote.
America's never been about what can be done for us.
 It's about what can be done by us together through the hard and frustrating, but necessary work of self- government.
 That's the principle we were founded on.
This country has more wealth than any nation, but that's not what makes us rich.
 We have the most powerful military in history, but that's not what makes us strong.
 Our university, our culture are all the envy of the world, but that's not what keeps the world coming to our shores.
What makes America exceptional are the bonds that hold together the most diverse nation on earth.
I am hopeful tonight because I've seen the spirit at work in America.
 I've seen it in the family business whose owners would rather cut their own pay than lay off their neighbors, and in the workers who would rather cut back their hours than see a friend lose a job.
I've seen it in the soldiers who reenlist after losing a limb and in those SEALs who charged up the stairs into darkness and danger because they knew there was a buddy behind them watching their back.
I've seen it on the shores of New Jersey and New York, where leaders  from every party and level of government have swept aside their differences to help a community rebuild from the wreckage of a terrible storm.
And I saw just the other day, in Mentor, Ohio, where a father told the story of his 8-year-old daughter, whose long battle with leukemia nearly cost their family everything had it not been for health care reform passing just a few months before the insurance company was about to stop paying for her care.
I had an opportunity to not just talk to the father, but meet this incredible daughter of his.
 And when he spoke to the crowd listening to that father's story, every parent in that room had tears in their eyes, because we knew that little girl could be our own.
And I know that every American wants her future to be just as bright.
 That's who we are.
 That's the country I'm so proud to lead as your president.
And tonight, despite all the hardship we've been through, despite all the frustrations of Washington, I've never been more hopeful about our future.
I have never been more hopeful about America.
 And I ask you to sustain that hope.
 I'm not talking about blind optimism, the kind of hope that just ignores the enormity of the tasks ahead or the roadblocks that stand in our path.
 I'm not talking about the wishful idealism that allows us to just sit on the sidelines or shirk from a fight.
I have always believed that hope is that stubborn thing inside us that insists, despite all the evidence to the contrary, that something better awaits us so long as we have the courage to keep reaching, to keep working, to keep fighting.
America, I believe we can build on the progress we've made and continue to fight for new jobs and new opportunity and new security for the middle class.
 I believe we can keep the promise of our founders, the idea that if you're willing to work hard, it doesn't matter who you are or where you come from or what you look like or where you love.
 It doesn't matter whether you're black or white or Hispanic or Asian or Native American or young or old or rich or poor, able, disabled, gay or straight, you can make it here in America if you're willing to try.
I believe we can seize this future together because we are not as divided as our politics suggests.
 We're not as cynical as the pundits believe.
 We are greater than the sum of our individual ambitions, and we remain more than a collection of red states and blue states.
 We are and forever will be the United States of America.
And together with your help and God's grace we will continue our journey forward and remind the world just why it is that we live in the greatest nation on Earth.
There’s apparently more to the president’s intensely negative re-election campaign than just a desire for a second term.
Romney has a long history of infuriating his opponents.
Veterans of the 2008 and 2012 Republican primaries recount how rivals – particularly Rudy Giuliani – found the moderate, mild-mannered former Massachusetts governor to be infuriating.
Excerpts from the book detail Obama’s hyper-competitive streak and how he feels that Romney is undeserving and “quickly developed a genuine disdain” for the Republican.
Democrats had long complained that President Obama was too cool and too aloof from the down and dirty of politics.
But Thrush depicts the president, who styles himself as a cerebral policy wonk, as a political gladiator intent on winning.
Part of what has Obama’s fighting spirit up, advisers told Thrush, is personal resentment against Romney.
Democrats may thrill to the thought of the president disdaining a rich-guy Republican, but this kind of animus is often unhelpful in politics.
There is evidence that more than four months and many millions of dollars devoted to scorching, character attacks on Romney have taken their toll on the presumptive GOP nominee, there’s also plenty of evidence that Obama is paying a price.
Negative ratings on both candidates have been on the rise in polls of late as Obama launches personal attacks on Romney on the stump and in television ads.
It’s helping to define Romney, but it’s also changing the definition of the president from one who seeks to elevate politics to one of the harshest practitioners of the “politics of personal destruction.”
Romney has a long history of infuriating his opponents.
Veterans of the 2008 and 2012 Republican primaries recount how rivals – particularly Rudy Giuliani – found the moderate, mild-mannered former Massachusetts governor to be infuriating.
While most people in politics are drawn to the field because they are intensely social animals.
Not Romney.
He opted to follow his father’s footsteps into politics, but he does not seem to crave contact the way natural politicians do.
That’s what infuriated his GOP rivals.
Everything with Romney and his team is all business and very chilly.
As Romney was shelling Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich with negative ads in the GOP primaries, he spoke with clinical detachment about his rivals.
What could be more frustrating than a guy who is torching you on television but who doesn’t care about you enough to actually hate you? Those feelings got the better of both Santorum and Gingrich, neither of whom could resist swinging too hard at the frontrunner.
Part of the resentment also come from the fact that most successful politicians are social climbers – people who used politics as a way up in American life.
Romney was born in the political and economic elite.
And while he capitalized his advantages to a remarkable degree, and is certainly no dissipated child of privilege, Romney’s silver-spoon upbringing infuriates climbers like Giuliani, Santorum, Gingrich and, apparently, Obama.
How much of the unprecedented negativity of Obama’s re-election bid stems from personal animus and how much is the cold calculation of politics? Who knows, but those kinds of resentments often drive people to lose perspective.
The other danger is what animus like what Obama feels toward Romney does to the culture of a campaign.
In 1170, Thomas Becket, archbishop of Canterbury, was locked in a struggle with King Henry II over the power to pick priests and other struggles with Rome.
Henry’s anger at the defiance of Becket boiled over, allegedly causing to fume “Will no one rid me of this pestilent priest?”.
Some entrepreneurial goons, sensing an opportunity, headed down to the cathedral and offed Becket.
This was the worst thing for Henry, who was forced to cut a deal with the pope and bow to the power of Rome to placate citizens horrified by the thought of an archbishop slaughtered before his own altar.
When Hillary Rosen attacks Ann Romney or Stephanie Cutter wonders aloud whether Mitt Romney is a felon, it reflects a campaign culture that starts with the man in charge.
The longer the race goes on, the deeper those resentments will become and the more danger there will be of intemperate actions by Obama team members.
Thrush’s book will serve as more evidence to the denizens of Obamaland that Romney is beneath their respect.
That could be very dangerous once the hand-to-hand combat begins in a few weeks.
Chris Stirewalt joined Fox News Channel (FNC) in July of 2010 and serves as digital politics editor based in Washington, D.C
 Additionally, he authors the daily "Fox News First” political news note and hosts “Power Play,” a feature video series, on FoxNews.com
Stirewalt makes frequent appearances on the network, including "The Kelly File," "Special Report with Bret Baier," and "Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace.”  He also provides expert political analysis for Fox News coverage of state, congressional and presidential elections.
