Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Olivia Chow is the first left-leaning challenger to incumbent Rob Ford.
			
Olivia Chow will return to the hardscrabble Toronto neighbourhood where she grew up to launch her campaign Thursday to become mayor of Canada’s largest city.
Just hours after resigning her NDP seat in the House of Commons, Chow officially joined the race Wednesday afternoon.
A member of her campaign team registered Chow’s candidacy at city hall, a day earlier than expected.
“Why not, no reason,” said Bill Cronau, her campaign’s chief financial officer.
Another volunteer, Bob Gallagher, also signed the paperwork, as did city Councillor Mike Layton, son of Chow’s late husband, NDP leader Jack Layton.
More on the election:.
The left-leaning politician joins an already crowded field of right-wing contenders preaching fiscal restraint.
Chow is expected to promise bold, progressive changes for the city.
Her challengers, including Mayor Rob Ford, wasted no time painting her as a spendthrift politician while evoking the past.
Ford told CP24 he welcomed Chow’s entry in the race and said she makes former mayor David Miller “look like a conservative.”
Councillor Karen Stintz’s mayoralty campaign issued a statement saying the city can’t afford “to go back to the ways of an NDP Mayor.”
“Toronto needs someone reasonable and accountable in the mayor’s chair, not someone who is going to perpetuate old-style ‘tax and spend’ attitudes,” the email said.
Businessman David Soknacki steered clear of any attack Wednesday as he stumped for the mayor’s job in the snow.
He and Chow were both city councillors during the reigns of both Mel Lastman and David Miller.
“Welcome to the race, look forward to debate, look forward to the seven months ahead,” Soknacki said.
Voters go to the polls Oct.
27.
Chow has led in most polls of potential contenders over the past year; the most recent, a late February survey by Forum Research, put her in a tie with Ford and gave her a slight lead over Tory.
Chow’s campaign will be managed by veteran John Laschinger, who has run campaigns for Miller and top provincial and federal Conservatives.
Warren Kinsella, the veteran Liberal strategist, is also involved.
Chow has been endorsed by George Smitherman — the Liberal who was defeated by Ford in 2010 — and filmmaker Deepa Mehta, among others.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				David Soknacki speaks to reporters after a speech in December.
The former councillor will be jumping into the race Monday, a typical move for candidates who need time to build name recognition against better known contenders.
			
Mayor Rob Ford is already on the ballot, having filed his paperwork Thursday.
But it looks like the rest of the likely-to-runs — Karen Stintz, John Tory, Olivia Chow and Denzil Minnan-Wong — won’t be getting in for at least another month, possibly as late as early spring.
In a 10-month campaign, when is the right moment for a candidate to make it official?.
Rocco Rossi, who took on Ford and George Smitherman in the last election, says the timing question is a balancing act that’s different for everyone.
In 2010, Rossi signed up as soon as the nomination process opened.
Back then, Rossi was a heavyweight in political circles, having served formerly as the Liberal Party of Canada director, but a virtual unknown to the broader public.
There’s also the issue of money.
Candidates can’t start fundraising until they’ve registered.
A viable mayoral campaign needs a little more than a million dollars.
And all of that takes time.
The downside is that Toronto’s municipal election period is one of the longest — perhaps the longest — in the country.
It spans 10 long and expensive months.
Registration means candidates can accept donations, but also means they can start spending.
Staff, signage, a website, an office, launching a brand — a million dollars goes fast, Rossi said.
Ford is the first, and the worse, in 2014 election: Editorial.
There’s also a practical benefit to watching from the sidelines as long as possible.
“The sooner you get in, the sooner you have to answer questions.
And for some who don’t have to worry as much about name recognition, you don’t want to have to answer those questions until the very last moment, tactically,” he said.
“You could be put on the defensive earlier than you want to be,” he said.
Rossi, who is now the president of Prostate Cancer Canada, had been the CEO of Ontario’s Heart & Stroke Foundation before he quit to run for mayor.
Though it was not his first dalliance with local politics.
In 2003, Rossi ran John Tory’s near-miss campaign against David Miller.
Now that he was the candidate, Rossi was hoping to inherit Tory’s centre-right base.
For an unknown, he got off to a reasonable start.
A January 2010 Angus Reid-Toronto Star poll put Rossi’s support at 15 per cent, with Smitherman way out in front.
Then everything fell apart for him — and everyone else in the race — at the end of March, after Ford declared.
“It was surreal.
From the moment he came in, I mean, he just sucked up all of the oxygen.
And I can’t think of anything (I would have done differently) that would have made a significant difference,” Rossi said.
Ford had a rock-hard brand on taxes, waste and entitlements.
It was a message that resonated with the mood of the electorate.
At the time, it made sense for Ford to wait a few months before getting in, the same way it makes sense for Tory — who now has his radio show on Newstalk 1010 — and Chow, one of the most high-profile politicians in the country.
But this time around, Rossi says he wasn’t surprised to hear the mayor filed his papers early.
“I think he wants to send a clear message to everyone — in particularly those on the centre right — that he will be there.
And that makes the math on the centre right very difficult, because he does have a hard core of support,” Rossi said.
For the 2014 campaign, Soknacki will be the Rossi in the race.
Soknacki is a businessman, a former columnist with Metroland, and during his time on council served as the city’s budget chief.
As a right-leaning candidate with business bona fides, Soknacki has the resume, just not the name recognition.
“We’re facing somewhat of an uphill battle when it comes to name recognition and don’t really have the luxury of a daily radio talk show or an upcoming book tour to spread our message or get David’s name out there,” said his spokesperson, Supriya Dwivedi, taking a not-so-subtle jab at Tory and at Chow, who will soon release a well-timed memoir.
Dwivedi also said Soknacki “has been quite clear from the onset that he intended to register early, and doesn’t really believe in playing the ‘will he or won't he’ game with registration.”
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
The Star's Daniel Dale explains the findings of of Mayor Ford's campaign audit and what comes next.
Feb.
1, 2013.
Mayor Rob Ford’s 2010 campaign exceeded the legal spending limit and committed other “apparent contraventions” of election law, an audit released on Friday concluded.
Ford, who won a high-stakes conflict of interest lawsuit only a week ago, may now see his tumultuous mayoralty wounded yet again by a lengthy legal battle.
If he is eventually found guilty of violating the Municipal Elections Act, he could be fined or removed from office — though removal is highly unlikely.
The auditor, Bruce Armstrong of Froese Forensic Partners, identified numerous instances in which he says the campaign appears to have broken the law.
According to Armstrong, the campaign exceeded the $1.3-million spending limit by $40,168, or about 3 per cent; improperly accepted an early-campaign loan from a Ford family company, on improper no-interest terms; incurred $5,805 in expenses before Ford registered as a candidate; accepted $6,000 in banned corporate donations; and wrongly classified promotional events as “fundraisers,” which are exempt from the spending limit
The audit is now in the hands of the city’s compliance audit committee.
The committee, composed of three non-politician experts, will decide at a Feb.
25 meeting whether to take no further action or to begin legal proceedings.
If the committee chooses to proceed, the city will hire a special prosecutor.
That prosecutor would independently decide whether to lay charges.
Any court case could well continue into the 2014 campaign; the prosecutor could take months just to make a decision on which charges to pursue.
Ford did not speak to reporters or issue a statement on the audit’s findings.
The two men who filed the complaint against Ford, Adam Chaleff-Freudenthaler and Max Reed, urged the committee to launch a prosecution.
“Based on the extraordinary number and severity of the apparent contraventions of election law by Rob Ford, the applicants will be requesting the compliance audit committee proceed with prosecution in a timely manner,” Heidi Rubin, their lawyer, said in a statement.
Severe penalties for campaign finance violations are rare in Ontario, and the elections law gives the courts more leeway in sentencing than the conflict of interest law Ford was previously accused of breaking.
In 2006, when Hamilton mayor Larry Di Ianni pleaded guilty to six charges, he agreed to pay $4,500 to charity and write an article for a magazine.
Councillor Doug Ford, the mayor’s brother and his campaign manager, said he found the audit “fair” in general.
But he said the campaign was pushed over the spending limit by minor transgressions — “onesies and twosies” — on which their opinion differed from Armstrong’s.
He took issue, in particular, with Armstrong’s conclusion that four events were not actually fundraisers.
One event, at the Grand Baccus hall in Scarborough, cost the campaign nearly $28,000 but raised less than $3,000.
Armstrong argued that the event was primarily intended to increase Ford’s profile, not to fundraise.
“They say these big events weren't fundraisers, like the Grand Baccus, because we spent $27,000 and raised $3,000,” Doug Ford said, “but we did a (fundraising) mailer after that.
What you raise isn't just what you take at the door.
Modern campaigns don't work like that.”
He said he was confident that Ford’s team could explain itself to the compliance audit committee.
“We don’t think we did anything wrong,” he said.
“We were so compliant, we were so organized, we have nothing to hide.” 
The law gives the courts the right to let violators off the hook if they acted “in good faith” and “committed the offence inadvertently or because of an error in judgment.” In an April statement, Rob Ford asserted that he had acted in good faith.
“I don’t know if it was deliberate, conniving, or evil.
What I do know is it was a lot of little cheating,” Vaughan said.
“Who in this City Hall doesn’t know you can’t spend money before you register? It’s sloppy, it’s stupid, it’s silly, it’s cheating.
When you don’t play by the rules, you’re a cheater.
Is it enough to kick him off council? No.
But it sure tells you exactly who he is as a person.”
Armstrong found that the campaign “received a benefit” from having Doug Ford Holdings improperly pay $77,722 worth of expenses and then paying the company back without interest.
Campaigns can only take loans from recognized lending institutions, Armstrong wrote, and preferential loan terms amount to a corporate donation.
The campaign, Armstrong found, did not return 11 donations from companies, totalling $6,000 — the biggest of which, a $2,500 contribution, originated with former premier Mike Harris.
The donation came from Harris’ firm, Steane Consulting.
The audit provided a glimpse into the operations and the disputes of the Ford juggernaut.
One of the apparent contraventions identified by Armstrong: Doug Ford’s alleged refusal to pay a full $71,167 bill submitted by the company, Wexler Productions, that provided the lighting, sound, and broadcast services for Ford’s victory party.
The campaign paid $35,000.
“During our meeting on January 20, 2013,” Armstrong wrote, “Doug recalled his discussions with Bernie and was adamant that the expenses initially invoiced were excessive and unreasonable.”
Reed, a lawyer, and Chaleff-Freudenthaler, a left-leaning activist and former vice-chair of the library board, were silent partners in the conflict of interest case that nearly forced Ford out of office.
Doug Ford darkly questioned their motives on Friday, calling them left-wing ideologues trying to “politically kill Rob.” Chaleff-Freudenthaler has said that he is simply trying to ensure politicians play by the rules.
The three compliance audit committee members are chair Douglas Colbourne, a chartered accountant and former chair of the Ontario Municipal Board; John Hollins, former chief electoral officer for Elections Ontario; and Virginia MacLean, a municipal lawyer based in Oakville.
Now available from StarDispatches: Star journalist Kenneth Kidd’s new eRead “Rob Ford: A Date with Destiny” is a clear and cogent look at the Rob Ford administration leading up to the audit.


.
To get the full story, simply go to stardispatches.com and subscribe for $1/week
“Rob Ford: A Date with Destiny” is also available for single-copy purchase at  starstore.ca or iTunes.ca/StarDispatches for $2.99.


        
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  That’s because, despite all his bluster about sweeping to victory, Rob Ford won’t be re-elected as mayor when voters go to the polls in October.


  Indeed, Ford stands a real chance of finishing a poor third in the race and could end up playing more of a role as a spoiler than being a viable contender for the mayor’s office.


  As much as Ford Nation will cry unfair, defeat for Ford is the most likely outcome of this race that pits the crack-smoking, ill-mannered mayor against top contenders Olivia Chow and John Tory.


  Clearly, many Toronto residents are deeply worried that the mayor could win this election.
Those concerns seem to be even more exaggerated among those “elites,” “lefties” and “downtowners” Ford uses as verbal punching bags in his campaign speeches.


  They are based on early polls that suggest Ford has a voter approval rating forever stuck between 40 and 45 per cent, regardless of what shame he brings on himself and the city, on television images of 1,500 wildly cheering Ford enthusiasts at his
  
    campaign kick-off
  
  event, of scenes of people clamouring for Ford bobbleheads and lining up to take “selfies” photos with the mayor wherever he shows up.


  Added to that is the international “celebrity” status that Ford has garnered after appearing on U.S
late-night shows.


  Taken together, they might suggest Ford could be re-elected, coming up the middle as Chow and Tory — and Karen Stintz and David Soknacki to a lesser extent — split the anti-Ford vote.


  Ford has no growth potential in the polls; he lacks support from any major community, political, religious or academic leader; every newspaper, including the Toronto Sun, which endorsed him in 2010, opposes his candidacy; and his lone main campaign message of controlling city hall spending can be easily usurped by other candidates.


  To win, Ford needs to capture 37-42 per cent of the votes in the Oct.
27 election.
Currently, only 23-27 per cent of Toronto voters say they would actually vote for him in the election.
To be re-elected, Ford must improve that number by about 50 per cent.


  But where does that extra support come from? An
  
    Ipsos Reid poll
  
  in December conducted on behalf of CTV News indicated 61 per cent of voters would never consider voting for Ford.
Also, Ford is the second choice of few voters polled compared with Chow and Tory.


  In the 2010 election, Ford got 47 per cent of the votes.
Many of them held their noses when they cast their ballots for Ford, disliking his personal failings but loving his message of “Stop the Gravy Train.”


  To date, Ford has done nothing to try to win them back.
Rather, he is frantically trying to solidify his core base, playing up his “celebrity” and bashing the “elites” he claims are out to get him.


  Also, the bulk of Ford’s supporters are young, lower income, less educated, male and from outer parts of suburbs such as Scarborough and North York.
All these groups are the least likely to vote in an election, which greatly hurts Ford’s campaign efforts.


  It’s because most Toronto residents believe city hall is failing to take vigilant care of their tax dollars.
To that end, Ford is seen as the guy who really cares about this issue.


  With Ford, voters like the message but hate the behaviour.
With Chow, voters like the behaviour but are wary about her message on spending.
With Tory, they like the behaviour but aren’t sure of the message.


  No doubt, Ford will remain a big factor in the race because of his message.
At the same time, election campaigns really do matter, as Tory knows from his failed 2003 mayoral bid.


  Ultimately, though, barring any unforeseen implosion by
  
    both
  
  Chow and Tory, Ford’s days as mayor will soon be over — and the city can relax again.

The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				John Tory did well in the poll conducted by Forum Research on the day he formally registered his candidacy for mayor of Toronto.
			
Olivia Chow, John Tory and Rob Ford are locked in a tight early race for Toronto’s mayoralty, though Tory and Chow have much more room than Ford to improve, according to the first opinion poll since Tory announced his candidacy.
Monday’s Forum Research poll of 1,310 residents, conducted on the day Tory and Karen Stintz registered to run, gave Tory 39 per cent support, Ford 33 per cent, Stintz 15 per cent, and David Soknacki 5 per cent in a race among the major declared candidates.
Chow, the NDP MP, has not formally started campaigning; she is almost certain to register by the end of March.
In a hypothetical race with Chow included, she and Ford tied at 31 per cent; Tory, the former Progressive Conservative leader, had 27 per cent; Stintz, a city councillor, had 6 per cent; Soknacki, a former councillor, had 2 per cent.
Those figures suggest Ford will struggle to stay afloat if voters who are unhappy with him eventually coalesce around a single top challenger.
A competitive slugfest between two or more challengers, however, could give the polarizing incumbent a chance to eke out a victory with less than 40 per cent of the vote.
Tory’s Monday numbers were higher than they were in Forum’s other polls this winter.
He had the highest approval rating, at 55 per cent.
Ford’s approval was stable at 44 per cent.
Chow’s was 51 per cent, Stintz’s 38 per cent, Soknacki’s 26 per cent.
Tory’s support was spread relatively evenly throughout the city.
Chow was strongest in the old municipalities of Toronto and East York, with 39 per cent; Ford was weakest in those areas, with only 19 per cent, but stronger than both Chow and Tory in the suburbs.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
“I would really like to be mayor,” a deflated John Tory told the Star days after finishing a close second to David Miller in the 2003 Toronto mayoral race.
While active in municipal, provincial and federal politics for more than 30 years — his first and only electoral victory remains in 2005, when, a year after being elected leader of the Ontario Conservative party, he coasted to an easy win in a byelection that secured him a seat in the legislature.
“I will never forget this moment,” he said at the time.
“I will never forget the trust you have placed in me.”
Tory was tagged as the Conservatives’ best shot at toppling premier Dalton McGuinty’s Liberals in 2007.
It was not to be after Tory was forced to backpedal on a $400-million campaign promise to extend funding to Muslim, Jewish, Christian, Sikh, Hindu and other religious schools.
He remained leader despite a less-than-overwhelming show of support at the party’s annual meeting, but stepped down by 2009.
Fast-forward to 2014, and Tory and Olivia Chow are the early favourites in the contest to beat Mayor Rob Ford.
Tory’s formula of leadership is a conservatism of free enterprise coupled with fiscal responsibility.
The key is for him to persuade voters that his “unparalleled experience” in the business world and passion for Toronto will put him in the driver’s seat in the race to be mayor of Canada’s largest city.
“John knows how to successfully lead, manage and obtain results from large, complex organizations,” his website says.
Tory has the support of a many prominent Torontonians.
They include former deputy mayor Case Ootes, who ran Ford’s 2010 transition team; Liberal provincial minister Brad Duguid; Gail Nyberg, executive director of the Daily Bread Food Bank; and Ontario PC president Richard Ciano, whose business partner, former Ford campaign chief Nick Kouvalis, will be part of Tory’s campaign.
Despite his Conservative pedigree, Tory believes new taxes are needed to pay for transit expansion.
His priority is what he calls the “the Yonge St.
subway relief line.” It would run in a U shape down into the downtown core from the east and west sides of the Bloor-Danforth line, and possibly from as far north as Eglinton Ave., relieving pressure on the crowded Yonge-University-Spadina line.
He has recently maintained a high-profile public presence as the chair of CivicAction, an advocacy group, and as the host of a radio talk show on Newstalk 1010.
Tory is positioning himself as a consensus builder and willing listener whose inclusive style achieves results.
“You’re not going to be able to tackle gridlock in the streets if you’ve got gridlock at city hall,” he said recently.
Education: B.A
University of Toronto (1975), Law degree Osgoode Hall law school York University (1978.) He was called to the bar in Ontario in 1980.
Resumé: MPP, Leader of Ontario PC Party and official opposition, CEO of Rogers, commissioner and chairman of the Canadian Football League, chair on revitalizing Ontario Place, founding member and former chair of the Greater Toronto CivicAction Alliance. Host of Live Drive with John Tory
Accomplishments/failures: Many credit him with saving the Canadian Football League from going out of business in the ’90s.
He performed the job for $1 a year.
Not so well remembered was his management of federal Tory leader Kim Campbell’s ill-fated election campaign in 1993 when the party was reduced to two seats.
Tory also lost to David Miller in 2003.
In 2007, as leader of the Ontario PC party, his faith-based education idea helped give Dalton McGuinty a massive majority.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Defence lawyer Ari Goldkind ponies up the $200 fee required to register for the mayoral election.
			
Goldkind is smart, has realistic ideas about fixing Toronto’s transit woes, and as an outsider doesn’t have the baggage so many career politicians carry.
This 2014 municipal election is (politically) the most star-studded contest Toronto has seen since amalgamation.
Voters have three top-tier candidates to choose from in John Tory, Olivia Chow and Rob Ford.
Karen Stintz hasn’t cracked double digits in the polls yet, but she has A-list strategists on her team, access to donor dollars and solid name recognition.
Former councillor David Soknacki is a long shot, but he has enough support from current members of council that he landed the token “dark horse” slot on the major candidate roster.
The rest are the so-called “fringe” contenders.
There’s a dominatrix, an 18-year-old high school student and a musician activist whose campaign website is robbnotford.com.
In fact, because the starting lineup is so packed, some of the “fringe” might actually have had a shot in years gone by.
Sarah Thomson, who registered her candidacy Thursday morning, was the Soknacki in the 2010 election.
(She eventually dropped out to support George Smitherman).
There’s also former councillor and police board chair Norm Gardner.
So for candidates like Thomson, Gardner, and Goldkind — who know the odds are stacked against them, but push forward anyway — the question is: Why bother?.
“The truth is, I’ve been asked this even by people close to me,” said Goldkind.
“I believe that if I can just get a seat at the table, you put me in a room with Tory, Ford, Stintz or Chow, and no one is going to question that I should be there.”
Gardner said much the same: “I think if I can get my message out, I think I could get a lot of support,” he said.
(Gardner’s main priorities are fixing ambulance service and shelving the Scarborough subway extension until other, higher priority areas are dealt with.)
Bernie Morton, a seasoned political veteran who helmed Rocco Rossi’s bid in 2010, said there’s no easy answer to the fringe question.
“On the one hand you want to encourage democracy.
On the other hand, you want to make sure that the electorate is properly served.
And when you see a ballot with so many names on it, often I think it can confuse the voters,” Morton said.
“Running when you have no chance of winning and knowing that you (can’t) raise the money needed to share your ideas, and if you don’t have a strong component of community support, then really — those motivations are not in the best interest of the electorate.”
At present, there are 41 candidates registered to run for mayor.
By Oct.
27, there will be many more.
And unfortunately, said Morton, most don’t seem to be there for the right reasons.
“I think if they were serious they would probably put their name on the ballot to run for council first,” Morton said.
“Most aren’t even part of their local ratepayers association or engaged in community groups.”
It’s not written in stone that a mayoral candidate has to be a councillor first, he said.
Someone with a high-profile position in the public and/or private sector could be just as qualified, but the motivation should be serving the public, not self-promotion.
People sometimes point to Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi — who came out of nowhere to win back in 2010 — as an example of why it’s important to give a platform to more than just the perceived frontrunners.
But as Peter MacLeod points out, the odds might have been against Nenshi, but he wasn’t “fringe.” He was a professor who had been involved in various high-profile civic movements, who was able to rally ground support and inspire the electorate with ideas.
MacLeod, who is the principal of MASSLBP —essentially a democracy consulting firm — said the lack of political parties in Toronto’s system is partly to blame for the huge number of candidates.
A party system helps weed out those who aren’t serious.
Then again, he said, “We’ve got to have a degree of patience for the vanity projects and self-promoters, because it’s also a hallmark for an open society.” 
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Rob Ford, right, stands a much higher chance of being re-elected as mayor in 2014 if there are a large number of credible candidates in the race to split the vote.
Ford is seen here on June 24, 2013, at the city hall flag-raising to kick off Pride Week.
			

  Suddenly, the race to replace
  
    Toronto Mayor Rob Ford
  
  is becoming crowded — and that’s just how Ford wants it.


  Indeed, Ford is dreaming of an election filled with challengers for his job, regardless of whether they are from the left or the right, from downtown or the suburbs.


  That’s because Ford’s chances of winning re-election jump each time a serious contender indicates they might jump into the October 2014 mayoral contest.


  Simply, the more credible candidates there are in the race, the more the anti-Ford vote will be splintered.
The ensuing result could be a narrow victory for Ford based on his being able to retain the backing of his
  
    hard-core Ford Nation supporters
  
  , who represent some 30 per cent of voters.


  The field became a bit more crowded this week when John Tory, the popular radio talk-show host and former Ontario Conservative Party leader said he was
  
    “thinking” about entering the race
  
  .


  That makes at least seven possible serious opponents for Ford.
Each brings their own strengths to the race, but none would make a significant dent in Ford’s base of support.


  ·
  
    'They can’t stop the exodus:' Pilot resignations hit ORNGE
  
.

  ·
  
    Real impact of the 2008 recession is now visible
  
.

  For Ford, the best scenario in 2014 is for his opponents to splinter votes on both the left and the right.


  On the left are Chow, Vaughan and Carroll.
On the right are Stintz, Tory, Minnan-Wong.
All of them would be draining votes not from Ford but from each other.


  To date, Chow is considered the front-runner.
In a one-on-one race, Ford doesn’t have a chance against Chow, according to a
  
    Forum Research poll
  
  conducted in late May.
The survey indicated Chow would get 56 per cent support and Ford 36 per cent.
Chow also easily led in three-way contests with Ford and Tory as well as against Stintz and Ford.


  Huge egos are at play here, though, with some rumoured contenders believing Chow’s big early lead will evaporate, just as it did for former mayor Barbara Hall in the 2003 election won by David Miller, who trailed badly in the first polls.


  If both Stintz and Tory are in the race, they would split the centre-right vote that favours fiscal restraint but can’t stomach Ford.
That constituency might be a sizeable part of the electorate, but not enough to make up for Ford’s seemingly unshakable base, many of whom likely would vote for him even if he ended up in jail for some reason.


  For the other hopefuls, they must decide if they can overcome the advantage that Ford, Chow and Tory have with their high public profile.


  As Rocco Rossi learned in his well-fought but failed 2010 mayoral bid, name recognition is a candidate’s biggest challenge.
“Forget the policy, forget the meetings with movers and shakers high up in bank towers,” a Rossi organizer said this week.
“If people on the front porch don’t know you, they won’t vote for you.
You can’t buy name recognition.”


  In the weeks ahead, every hopeful in this growing mayoral field will be testing their support at barbecues and festivals across the city.


  Rob Ford will spend the summer on the campaign trail, too — and hoping the race becomes even more crowded.

The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Mayor Rob Ford poses for pictures with guests on their way into the barbecue at his mother's house last year.
Ford has a solid approval rating from his supporters.


			.
When voters who are fed up with Rob Ford as mayor read this week about the latest scandal involving our city’s top politician, many of them likely were praying it would mean the end of Ford’s dream of being re-elected in 2014.
Their hopes soared after the Star reported Ford was asked to leave a gala event last month because he appeared impaired.
The Star also reported members of Ford’s own staff have urged him to enter a rehab program to deal with a drinking problem.
Defiant as ever, Ford called the story “an outright lie.”
For Ford-haters, the report was more proof that the mayor is unsuited to be mayor and that his long string of personal, legal and political controversies have turned Toronto’s highest office into a national bad joke.
Their hope is that Ford will be trounced in the 2014 election.
If the experiences in the U.S
and Canada are any examples, bad-boy mayors are just as likely to win re-election as to be ousted at the polls by angry voters.
Indeed, some of the most scandal-ridden mayors have been re-elected time and again, even after spending time in prison.
That’s because the disgraced politicians portray themselves as “the victim” instead of “the guilty.” Sadly, their hard-core supporters believe the “us-against-them” rhetoric spouted by the aggrieved politician.
That’s what Ralph Klein, a renowned problem drinker who was mayor of Calgary in the 1980s and later premier of Alberta, did every time he faced re-election.
Or take the infamous case of Marion Barry, who was once dubbed the “mayor for life” of Washington, D.C
Barry gained a wide following in Washington as a civil rights worker in the 1960s.
He was elected to city council in 1974 and four years later was elected mayor.
He easily won re-election in 1982 and 1986.
Always a canny politician, Barry constantly appealed to his loyalists, insinuating that “elites” and “left-wingers” in the white and black communities were out to get him and that he alone cared about the poor and forgotten in the city.
Across America, Barry became known as a sleazy mayor and Washington as the nation’s most corrupt, violent and worst-run city.
On Jan.
18, 1990, the FBI arrested Barry in a “sting” operation in which he was caught on videotape smoking crack cocaine in a Washington hotel.
In 1994, he stunned the nation by being elected mayor of Washington once again, defeating a strong, credible female opponent by a 56-42 margin.
In Toronto, Ford has made a career of playing the role of “champion of the little guy.” It’s been a successful political strategy to date and one that keeps his hard-core supporters, who represent 30 to 35 per cent of all voters, on his side
Judging by radio talk-show callers and emails sent this week to the Star, Ford Nation is in full fury, the Star’s latest story is just more “proof” that “left-wing downtown elites” are out to sink their hero.
For them, Ford is the real deal, the guy who fights for the little guy and nothing — not even a major scandal — will make them vote against him.
Absolutely nothing shook the faith for Ralph Klein or Marion Barry loyalists.
And seemingly nothing will for devout Ford Nation voters.
Would you bet against Ford — scandal or no scandal — in the next election?.
The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				TTC chair Karen Stintz’s people will position her as a fiscally conservative alternative to the mayor, who can build a coalition of left and right councillors.


			
That means that while voters might be months away from caring about Toronto’s next election, the pre-season campaign has already begun.
Mayor Ford has spent much of the last year making stump speeches.
That continued Friday — the third anniversary of his victory — when the mayor appeared on Newstalk1010’s Jerry Agar Show.
After rattling off a list of achievements, Ford debuted a new slogan.
“We’re on the right path.
And it’s only gonna get better with time and I just can’t wait for Oct.
27 (2014).
We’ll get Ford more years,” he said.
Besides the mayor, only former city councillor David Soknacki has declared his candidacy.
But both Karen Stintz and Olivia Chow are serious enough to have assembled skeleton campaign teams.
Radio host John Tory’s name is still in the mix, as is city councillor Denzil Minnan-Wong’s.
Below is a look at the current state of the race.
In news that will resonate in political circles, chief Liberal strategist Don Guy confirms he will be helping Toronto’s TTC chair become the next mayor.
Guy — the man behind Dalton McGuinty’s three consecutive wins — will play a senior advisory role, while Liberal Dave Gene holds the official title of campaign manager.
Conservatives Beverley Hammond and Paul Brown have also signed on.
Stintz’s people will position her as a fiscally conservative alternative to the mayor, who can build a coalition of left and right councillors.
“She’s been able to bring people together on council and the city and get people moving forward without the distractions.
She’s someone we can respect,” Brown said.
Pros: Chow is the front-runner, with off-the-charts likability numbers, name recognition and political experience, including time as a city councillor before her current gig as MP Trinity-Spadina.
Cons: Many people view Ford’s victory as a rejection of the Miller administration’s policies.
Chow, a devoted progressive, could be viewed as a return to the old ways.
Chow’s camp includes hired gun John Laschinger, the architect of David Miller’s 2003 victory, seasoned NDP operative Joe Cressy, and spin doctor Warren Kinsella — the so-called “Prince of Darkness” of Canadian politics.
The presence of Kinsella, a proud attack dog who specializes in dirty tricks, is especially telling.
“If she runs and she’ll have me, absolutely, I’ll be there.
.
.
the city after having gone through what it’s gone through the last four years needs somebody who is a healer quite frankly and somebody who can work with all sides of a divide,” said Kinsella.
If Chow decides to run, her edge would be her chances with Scarborough’s large Chinese community.
(A progressive candidate can’t solely rely on downtown Toronto.
Scarborough and North York house more than half of the city’s population.)
Pro: Tory has profile, the capacity to raise money and he’s liked by both Liberals and Conservatives.
Tory is supposed to announce a final decision early next year, but no matter what he decides, there will undoubtedly be speculation about his potential candidacy right up until September 12, 2014 — the last day to file a nomination.
If Tory does get in, Liberal war room veteran Bob Richardson and Conservative John Capobianco have pledged their support.
The big question for 2014 is who will run the mayor’s re-election bid.
The man who devised Ford’s previous Gravy Train campaign, Nick Kouvalis, says it won’t be him.
“I’m looking forward to helping candidates in certain (councillor) races.
But it looks like I’ll be staying out of the mayor’s race,” he said.
Previously, sources close to the Ford brothers say Kouvalis agreed to be involved if the mayor went to rehab and lost some weight.
Kouvalis wouldn’t say why he won’t be joining Team Ford, but he shared his vision for the campaign he would have run.
Pros: Soknacki spent more than a decade representing Scarborough at the municipal level, before and after the 1998 amalgamation.
He’s well liked on council and knows how the city works.
Cons: Few outside of the city hall bubble know who he is.
Cons: People don’t know him and those who do will associate him with the Ford administration.
Minnan-Wong is a member of the mayor’s executive committee and an ally on council.
He will try to convince voters he is the best to continue Ford’s policies without the distractions.
Jaime Watt — a high-profile Conservative operative who supported George Smitherman in 2010 — is rumoured to be among his supporters.
Reached earlier this week, Watt said he has not yet decided whom he’ll be supporting in 2014.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
A secret request to alter her pay and a string of spending scandals appear to have battered the reputation of Brampton Mayor Susan Fennell, according to a new poll of the city's voters.
Despite Fennell’s recent insistence in council that “There is no scandal in Brampton” — a phrase she repeated three times — it appears nearly three-quarters (74 per cent) of those polled disagreed.
Some 72 per cent disapprove of the job Fennell is doing.
But the biggest problem facing the beleaguered mayor of Canada’s ninth largest city, according to the weekend poll by Forum Research, is her chances in the Oct.
27 election.
In a three-way race with fellow mayoral candidates Linda Jeffrey, a long-time Brampton MPP, and Councillor John Sanderson, Fennell is lagging way behind.
She would draw 18 per cent of the vote, compared with 39 per cent for Jeffrey and 26 per cent for Sanderson.
Recent revelations that Fennell and her staff charged $663,000 on their city-issued credit cards since 2007 for things such as LCBO purchases, luxury hotel stays, high-end restaurants, jewelry and first-class airfare (Fennell said some of the expenses were later reimbursed) has angered many voters.
Eighty per cent of respondents said they do not approve of city-issued credit cards being used for travel and entertainment expenses, and six in 10 blame Fennell alone for the recent spending scandals in Brampton.
A forensic audit is underway by Deloitte Canada, investigating spending by Fennell and the rest of council.
Sanderson’s call for an audit followed a series of media reports about spending by Fennell’s office starting last fall, based on documents obtained under freedom of information law.
Only 12 per cent of those surveyed said it’s acceptable to use city credit cards to cover travel and entertainment costs.
But Fennell refused to apologize for any of the spending racked up on plastic when councillors publicly demanded explanations two weeks ago.
Fennell said the luxury hotels at which she stayed on several occasions were not chosen by her; that a flight to Ottawa cost $1,850 because it was booked on a flight pass that would otherwise have expired (she flew to other Canadian cities at the same price); and that her $2 airport luggage rack charges were for other travellers in her group.
It was recently revealed that she secretly asked to not be paid for the last two months of 2013, which critics argued was an attempt to lose her politically costly 2012 status as Canada’s highest-paid mayor.
It's unclear if she has since received the salary payments that were stopped by the city treasurer on Fennell's confidential instruction.
Councillors are now awaiting the results of the ongoing forensic audit, expected to be finished by July.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				New Democrat MP Olivia Chow intends to submit her resignation early Wednesday to the Speaker of the House of Commons.


			

  Olivia Chow resigned her seat in the House of Commons on Wednesday, a day before she will launch her Toronto mayoral campaign, according to two campaign sources.


  Chow, a New Democrat who represents Trinity-Spadina, will become the first left-leaning challenger to incumbent
  
    Rob Ford
  
  .
Her long-expected entry likely completes the field of major candidates.


  Chow’s campaign will emphasize her personal story, which she told in a bestselling autobiography that has kept her in the public eye during her extended pre-campaign.
Her launch will be held in a church in St.
James Town, the dense, low-income neighbourhood of highrises where her family lived after emigrating from Hong Kong in 1970.


  
    Live coverage PLUS chat with Robyn Doolittle about the candidates
  
.

  Chow has led in most polls over the last year.
The latest, a
  
    late-February survey
  
  from Forum Research, put her in a tie with Ford and gave her a slight lead over John Tory, the leading challenger on the right.


  Chow organizers say she will offer an unabashed contrast to the policy stances of Ford, a conservative populist.
Tory, the former Progressive Conservative leader, and Karen Stintz, the right-leaning city councillor, have promised to be more effective and respectful than Ford, but they too have emphasized their desire for low taxes.


  “Tory and Stintz have not articulated an agenda, or a clear contrast with Rob Ford.
And coming out of the gate, you will see Olivia articulate an agenda.
One that is bold, one that is surprising, one that speaks to her values and her personal story in the city of Toronto.”


  Chow has not yet expressed specific positions on many major municipal issues, from transit expansion to the outsourcing of garbage collection; as an MP, she has called for a national transit strategy and greater federal investment in infrastructure.
The Chow organizer said she will not release a complete platform immediately but will outline her policy preferences more quickly than Tory and Stintz.


  Chow is known across the country as the wife of late NDP leader Jack Layton.
A former school trustee, she made her name in Toronto as an effective progressive organizer on council, serving for 14 years until 2005.
She was the city’s official advocate for children under right-leaning mayor Mel Lastman.


  Stintz has said that Chow is an “NDP candidate” who subscribes to the “tax-and-spend” approach of Ford’s left-leaning predecessor, David Miller.
Tory’s campaign described her as a free-spending partisan in its initial attack early Wednesday.


  “John has built his career bringing people from across party lines together to deliver results, and that’s exactly what he will do as mayor of Toronto.
Neither Mayor Ford nor Ms.
Chow can be trusted to do that.
With respect to Ms.
Chow, she’s never met a public dollar she couldn’t spend,” said spokeswoman Amanda Galbraith.
“We welcome the contrast with John, who is committed to keeping taxes low and building a more livable, affordable, functional city.”


  The Chow organizer said she will turn to her biography to attempt to respond to such attacks once she registers, contrasting her own humble roots with the inherited wealth of Ford and Tory.


  “I learned the value of a dollar the hard way,” the organizer said, previewing Chow’s message.
“I came here when I was 13 years old.
We had to watch every penny, nickel and dime.
It wasn’t easy.
But those same values, that same value of a dollar, I will always bring to government.
Where did you learn the value of a dollar?”
.

  Despite their vastly divergent political philosophies, Chow and Ford will compete for some of the same voters.
Ford has been popular with some of the immigrants and poor communities who have traditionally sided with the left, and he is relatively strong in Scarborough, which has a substantial Chinese-Canadian community.
Chow has only gently criticized Ford’s behaviour, saying her grandchildren deserve a better role model.


  Chow’s campaign will be managed by veteran John Laschinger, who has run campaigns for Miller and top provincial and federal Conservatives.
Warren Kinsella, the veteran Liberal strategist, is also involved.


  Chow has been endorsed by George Smitherman — the Liberal who was defeated by Ford in 2010 — and filmmaker Deepa Mehta, among others.

Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
Rob Ford wants to frame the mayoral election as a referendum on his fiscal management.
And he doesn’t want to talk about his conduct.
As he had promised, Ford was the first candidate to register for the 2014 race.
Immediately after he filed his nomination papers at city hall Thursday morning, he revealed his early communications strategy: a relentless focus on money matters, a refusal to address questions about his behaviour while in office.
“I’ve got the strongest track record.
I’ve been the best mayor that this city’s ever had.
My record speaks for itself,” he told reporters at city hall.
Asked what he will tell parents who approach him on the campaign trail with questions about crack cocaine use and associations with criminals, he responded: “You want to get personal? I’m sticking to my record.
That’s all personal.” 
Ford’s message discipline helped propel him to victory in 2010 as an indignant outsider demanding change.
This time, he is a scandal-plagued incumbent defending the status quo.
He argued that the city is “better now than it was four years ago.” He demurred when asked what he would do differently in a second term.
Election Day is October 27, 10 months away.
The marathon campaign will likely operate at a low level of intensity for more than a month, maybe more than two: Ford’s foremost potential challengers, NDP MP Olivia Chow on the left and former Ontario Progressive Conservative leader John Tory on the right, will not enter the race immediately.
Harper, Ford, place their bets on the next elections: Tim Harper.
A year in the life of Mayor Rob Ford, with apologies: DiManno.
“Character, integrity, and trust will and should be part of the mayoralty campaign,” Minnan-Wong said in an interview.
“In my view, the mayoralty campaign should be based on issues,” he said.
“But it will also, and must fundamentally, be about character.”
Stintz repeated her criticism of Ford’s handling of last week’s ice storm.
She argued that the city’s response was hampered by the absence of a mayor with traditional powers; council, she said, was compelled to limit Ford’s authority in November because of his actions.
Thursday was the first day of the campaign period.
Ford filed as soon as city hall’s elections office opened for business at 8:30 a.m
Ford’s slogans in 2010 were “respect for taxpayers” and later “stop the gravy train.” His slogan this time is “Ford more years.”
At city hall and in interviews on talk radio, Ford rattled off a list of accomplishments: the elimination of the vehicle registration tax, widely-hailed deals with the municipal unions, a council-approved subway to replace the Scarborough RT.
He also made five false claims.
He said he has council’s best attendance record, though he is worse than two-thirds of his colleagues; he said he has achieved tax increases lower than 1.75 per cent for four years, though the increase was 2.5 per cent in 2012 and 2 per cent in 2013; he said the unemployment rate dropped from 11 per cent when he took office to 7 per cent today, though it actually jumped from 9.4 per cent then to 9.8 per cent as of October.
He claimed the city “started spending like drunken sailors” after council stripped his powers in November, though there is no evidence that the proposed 2014 budget had changed at all.
And he said again that he has saved the city “a billion dollars,” a claim that relies on dubious math, exaggerations and omissions.
Councillor Doug Ford will be his brother’s campaign manager.
Rob Ford refused to identify any other members of the campaign team.
His early entry allows him to begin raising and spending money.
Stripped of most of his powers, he will have ample time to campaign.
By staying out of the race for now, conversely, Chow and Tory will be able to remain in the public eye without facing direct fire.
Chow plans to embark on a tour to promote her memoir; Tory hosts a talk radio show.
Fourteen fringe candidates had registered to run against Ford by the end of the day.
They included Matt Mernagh, the marijuana activist, and Richard Underhill, the musician whose band The Shuffle Demons had a TTC-related hit, “Spadina Bus.”
Ford’s trip to the elections office was far more sedate than his theatrical appearance in 2010, when he was accompanied by a group of noisy supporters wearing “Team Ford” t-shirts.
This time, he was joined only by his brother, his chief of staff, his driver and his spokesman.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
David Soknacki’s small-“c” conservative pedigree made him an interesting and unusual choice as budget chief for the left-of-centre mayor David Miller.
He didn’t back Miller’s mayoral bid in 2003.
Soknacki voted for John Tory, who is now a challenger in the 2014 Toronto mayoralty race.
But Soknacki also had a reputation at city hall for being a team player with a level-headed approach to spending, a right-winger who often sidled up to the middle.
“I think we both realize that we’re different people.
I like to think there is mutual respect,” Soknacki said in 2003, after Miller made the appointment, the most influential job for a councillor.
“He (Miller) can vote for things that are important to him, just as I can.”
Soknacki entered politics in 1994 as a Scarborough councillor and was elected to the amalgamated council in a 1999 by-election.
Before he accepted the budget chief post, Soknacki met with Miller to sort out some details, including the size of a tax hike to work toward and how to find savings within the city’s workforce.
Over the next three years, Soknacki helped guide the city through perennial budget shortfalls.
His mayoralty opponents have noted he was the budget chief at a time when council approved consecutive 3-per-cent property tax hikes — failing to note that Soknacki would have preferred to hold the line at zero.
In 2006, Soknacki announced he wouldn’t seek re-election.
He acknowledged many professional disagreements with Miller, but denied he was leaving out of frustration.
“I’m not the type of person that would pick up my marbles and go home,” he said after making his announcement.
He didn’t completely disappear from the public eye.
From 2007 to 2012, he chaired the Downsview Park board and wrote a “Beyond the Headlines” column for the Scarborough Mirror and insidetoronto.com.
“I’ve been very troubled by the polarization of (city hall) debates.
There seems to be a ‘them versus us’ mentality, not just on some issues but on all issues,” Soknacki said last year.
Soknacki believes light rail, not a subway, makes the most sense as a replacement for the aging Scarborough RT.
It was council’s flip-flopping and infighting on transit expansion that prompted political friends to talk to him about re-entering politics, he said.
“Building creative solutions requires patience, good humour and a deep base of policy knowledge,” Soknacki has written.
“We can’t be guided by ideology alone.
I will make my decisions based on the evidence and stand my ground against those who use bully tactics to try and get their way.”
Accomplishments/failures: Showed how councillors of all political stripes can put differences aside and work for the good of the city.
After he stepped down, Miller’s office issued a statement thanking Soknacki for helping “constructively to deliver budgets that addressed the needs of Torontonians while being fiscally responsible.” While Soknacki never publicly acknowledged it, some suggested he stepped down because he was frustrated that he was unable to influence Miller’s agenda.
What we would do if elected: Reduce Toronto’s commercial, industrial and rental apartment tax rates; reform the outdated business licensing system, which the city ombudsman recently highlighted for its excessive red tape; reinstate the Scarborough LRT plan; modernize the public safety system; reduce pedestrian deaths and protect parks and historical buildings.
Ranked ballot should just be the beginning: James.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
“It’s not easy to be vulnerable and this is one of the most difficult times in my life,” Ford said in a statement.
“I have a problem with alcohol, and the choices I have made while under the influence.
I have struggled with this for some time.”
He said he had taken some time “to think about his own well-being, how to best serve the people of Toronto and what is in the best interests of my family,” and had decided to take a leave of absence.
“I have tried to deal with these issues by myself over the past year.
I know that I need professional help and I am now 100 per cent committed to getting myself right.”
The mayor released the statement several hours after reports surfaced of a new video of the mayor allegedly smoking crack cocaine.
According to two Globe and Mail reporters who saw the video, it shows him taking a drag from a long pipe and exhaling smoke.
A new audio recording of Ford ranting and swearing in an Etobicoke bar was also posted Wednesday on the Toronto Sun website.
“NDP, I’m just not left wing.
I am like Tim Hudak, but I can’t, I won’t put a sign up ….
I might have to vote green, I don’t know what the f--- I’m going to vote now.
I have to vote something, but I’m absolutely going to vote.
I’m probably going to vote green because the green guy didn’t say a f---ing word.”
According to the Sun, the recording was taped Monday night by a guest at Sullie Gorman’s, a bar in Etobicoke.
It also contains Ford being unruly as he’s ordering booze, complaining about his wife Renata and making lewd comments about mayoral contender Karen Stintz.
In Ford’s statement, he said he loves the people of Toronto and hopes that they will continue to stand by him.
“With the support of my family, friends, professionals and the people of Toronto, I will conquer this,” he said.
“Please keep me and my family in your prayers during these difficult days ahead.
I just want to say to the people of Toronto that I thank you for your ongoing support and encouragement.
I cannot tell you enough how much I appreciate it.”
Ford’s lawyer, Dennis Morris, told the Star that the mayor told him Wednesday that he is taking a leave but not quitting the campaign.
“He’s doing what I think most of the population thought would be appropriate a number of months ago.
At that time he didn’t think he should, and now I think he realizes, so that’s a good step.”
Morris said that Ford has not said how long the leave will be or what exact help he will be seeking.
He also said the leave may not begin immediately.
“I think the public realizes that he may face certain substance abuse problems and was not admitting to them.
Finally admitting to a problem is the first step to rehabilitation.”
Morris said that Ford did not specifically reference the new recordings, but said that events over the last few days had prompted the break.
“If (the recording) is accurate, then that’s reason enough to take a leave,” said Morris.
“He just thinks it’s time.
Certain things allegedly have happened over the last few days, and I think he realizes that it’s time to address the difficulties.”
“He just needs time to freshen up in the sense that he’s overwhelmed by most everything that’s been going on in the last 14 years and he hasn’t really taken a leave.
I think that this is good for his health, it’s good for the public, it’s good for the voters and it’s good for his family.”
Stintz said in an interview earlier Wednesday it was time that Ford gets the help that he needs for himself and his family.
“I think it’s overdue.
I hope that for his own health and the sake of his family that he gets the help that he needs.”
She said she had not heard the alleged recording and could not comment.
“I’m not going to speculate on what brought the mayor to the realization that he needed some help.”
“This is the not the first time that Rob Ford has made misogynistic comments.
Unfortunately, there are many that keep giving Rob Ford a pass.
“Karen will address these comments directly in the coming days.
Tonight, the people who support Karen Stintz are rallying behind her.
In addition to seeking help, we hope for a full apology from Rob Ford, not only to Karen, but to all in this great city who expect more from their mayor.”
“Like Torontonians across the city, I am deeply disappointed by these revelations of Mayor Ford’s behaviour.
For the good of the city, I call on Mayor Ford to resign,” he said.
“I fully support Deputy Mayor Norm Kelly and I call on all councillors to do the same during this challenging time for our city.”
Councillors and other mayoral candidates were also reacting to the news as it broke late Wednesday.
“Time is up for both Fords,” Etobicoke Councillor Gloria Lindsay Luby tweeted, referring also to the mayor's brother and campaign manager, Doug Ford.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
After answering a newspaper ad looking for a candidate to inject new blood on city council, Karen Stintz knocked off the long-serving incumbent in 2003.
She has represented Toronto’s midtown Ward 16 (Eglinton-Lawrence) ever since.
Eleven years ago, she was new to politics — other than having an interest in government, a job with the province and three post-secondary degrees, including a master’s in public administration.
She learned the ropes during David Miller’s administration, as a member of the centre-right coalition that opposed many of his policies, such as the land transfer tax on home purchases.
After she won a third term in 2010, Mayor Rob Ford appointed her chair of the Toronto Transit Commission, a file often considered a prelude to a run at the mayor’s job.
For a time, she belonged to “Team Ford,” supporting much of the mayor’s non-transit agenda.
But she fell out of the mayor’s inner circle after persuading council to stick with an above-ground light rail system similar to Miller’s original Transit City plan, a slap in the face to the subway-touting mayor.
Councillor Doug Ford told the Toronto Sun her appointment as TTC chair was the “biggest mistake” made by his brother as mayor.
But last year, bucking opposition, Stintz joined Ford and a slim majority of councillors to reject plans to replace the aging Scarborough Rapid Transit system with light rail and vote for a Bloor-Danforth subway extension into Scarborough.
Last month, Stintz, 43, stepped down as TTC chair before jumping into the race to be mayor.
So far, she appears to be positioning herself as someone who is “responsible and accountable” and fiscally prudent, occupying similar ground as fellow centre-right challengers, businessman and former councillor David Soknacki and former Progressive Conservative leader John Tory.
Stintz, who volunteered on Tory’s 2003 campaign, was once a member of both the federal and Ontario Conservative parties, but now belongs to neither.
Stintz is also highlighting the contrast between herself and well-heeled rivals (Soknacki runs a successful business; Tory is a wealthy former Rogers executive; and Ford’s family owns Deco Labels) by playing up her image as a regular Toronto mom.
“I’m like most people who live in the city,” she said.
“I have a family, I have a mortgage, I have two kids, two dogs.
I have challenges.
I’ve got the same pressures that people have every day.
I suffer from gridlock.
I have financial considerations as well.
Not only do I have a track record, I get it.”
Her campaign team includes the chief and deputy chief of staff to former Liberal premier Dalton McGuinty, along with a former co-chair of the federal Conservatives’ Ontario campaign.
Accomplishments/failures: One of Stintz’s finer moments was very recent.
Over the Christmas holidays she blocked access to a developer’s crew wanting to cut trees down in her ward.
It was a solid grassroots moment.
Under Stintz’s watch, the TTC introduced a new customer service charter, free Wi-Fi at subway stations, the Crisis Link suicide prevention program and the Presto fare card system.
But the TTC was also forced to cut loading standards.
It meant even more packed buses, pared-back evening service, and weekend service that all but disappeared on some routes.
What she would do if elected: Pursue a downtown relief subway line, reform the land transfer tax, support a joint Toronto-U.S
bid for the 2026 World Cup, explore a “hybrid” solution for the eastern part of the Gardiner Expressway, sell 10 per cent of Toronto Hydro or lease out the lucrative electricity monopoly, and devote the proceeds to transit expansion.
She has cited traffic congestion as a top priority and would appoint a single “czar” responsible for all transportation issues.
Ranked ballot should just be the beginning: James.
