olivia chow held her first big rally of the toronto mayor's election campaign at the weston prince hotel.
chow had been relatively gentle in her criticism of the scandal-plagued ford, calling him a poor role model and his leadership “disappointing.” her rhetoric was markedly stronger in a speech to an energetic crowd of hundreds in a ballroom at a westin hotel at york mills rd
and don mills rd.
in north york.
“there is one thing that i think most people in our city agree on, from east to west, north to south: it’s time to pack up that circus tent at city hall,” she said.
“it is time to return to our best traditions — working together, all of us, to get things done.
and that’s the way it will be after we replace rob ford.
after we replace all that nonsense that comes with rob ford.”
tory, the former progressive conservative leader, is positioning himself as a consensus-building moderate conservative who would keep taxes low but run a more functional government than ford and build the downtown relief subway line that is only ford’s third priority.
chow, the former ndp mp who began her campaign wednesday, suggested on sunday that she will attempt to depict tory as ford-lite.
tory spokesperson amanda galbraith responded: "it's too bad that olivia chow feels the need to reduce her vision of toronto to rob ford and everyone else.
it's too bad she wants keep this city divided, and not bring it back together."
"we look forward to stacking john's record of success and his plan for toronto against ms.
chow's in the coming months," galbraith said.
"that starts with john's commitment to building transit, starting with the yonge st.
relief line, while ms.
chow maintains it is not a priority."
chow said last week that the relief line should be built "eventually." she has not laid out her transit priorities other than her signature current policy: cancelling the planned three-stop scarborough subway extension, and related tax hike, and building the less expensive seven-stop light rail line that was originally planned
she framed this proposal sunday as an evidence-based attempt to “take the politics out of transit planning,” though it would involve another heated debate at council and perhaps queen’s park.
ford, tory and karen stintz want to build the subway.
david soknacki also wants to revert to light rail.
chow hinted at a coming proposal on child care, saying the city can find a “practical” way, “within our means,” to make things easier for parents.
she provided no specifics in the speech or when asked in a media scrum later.
the speech was light on policy.
chow pledged “change.” she said twice that she would mind the public purse; her rivals say she is a free spender
and she attempted to harness discontent with the state of the city’s economy and public services.
“unemployment is up.
costs are up, and the services our families rely on are down.
we are paying higher recreation fees, we are paying more for transit, and yet it’s harder to get a bus,” she said.
ford says the city is “booming,” despite the 10 per cent unemployment rate, and that he has improved the economy and city services.
the event, held far from chow’s downtown support base, served as a show of grassroots and organizational strength.
attendees came from around the city, and they broke into frequent chants of “o-li-vi-a.” movie director deepa mehta gave a heartfelt endorsement speech — which she ended, somewhat incongruously, by saying chow is a much better dresser than ford
follow our live stream of the mayoral debate between toronto mayor rob ford and candidates olivia chow, john tory, david soknacki and karen stintz courtesy of citynews.
on mobile? see the live stream here and follow live coverage here.
but saturday night, the campaigns of mayor rob ford, olivia chow and john tory issued a joint statement saying they were backing out.
“after much consideration, we the under signed will not be participating in the ciut debate planned for monday,” the statement said.
“after multiple attempts for clarification on which candidates would be attending the debate, our questions have still been left unanswered.
combined, we feel that we have been misled by the organizers of this debate.
as always, we welcome opportunities to discuss the issues facing our city with other candidates and look forward to well-planned debates with transparent processes.”
station manager ken stowar said he learned of the withdrawal via media reports.
“in all fairness they have not informed me personally,” stowar said after the statement was released.
“i have sent (the handlers of ford, tory, chow, thomson and soknacki) emails and they have not responded yet.”
stowar told the star — before the joint statement was issued — that he’d wanted to host a debate that was more alternative than the one hosted by city tv in march.
that debate with five candidates —ford, chow and tory, stintz and soknacki was criticized for being unruly.
thomson famously accused ford of groping her at an event in 2013, allegations he denied.
and thomson also previously hosted a show on ciut before entering the race.
but stowar says it was the backlash she faced following the groping allegations that made him want to invite her to the debate, not any favouritism stemming from her radio show.
an invitation was later extended to soknacki as a sort of insurance policy against any of the other candidates backing out, stowar said.
stowar, who was attempting to arrange a candidates’ debate for the first time, said his focus had lately shifted to raising the $160,000 needed for a new radio transmitter.
the existing one failed suddenly last week, plunging the station into uncertainty.
“i have been practically sleepless for the past week, i’m totally exhausted,” stowar said.
“in hindsight, i’d probably bitten off more than i could chew.
i’m trying to handle so much right now.”
stowar had planned to host two more debates with another “mix” of candidates, including fringe candidates, over the next few months before then a final one nearer the october election.
stintz said friday she was disappointed by the station’s decision.
thomson had said she was happy to “finally” be included.

				the transformation precipitated by the internet and digital revolution gives us access to the knowledge and intelligence of people across the city and around the world, don tapscott writes.
so what will we do with it?
			.

  this past week john tory and karen stintz
  
    entered the mayoral race
  
  , while others, most notably olivia chow, are still standing in the wings.
it goes without saying that our next mayor should have integrity, be law-abiding and set a good example to our children.
we also need an effective consensus builder and administrator.
we need a mayor whom police will want to work with rather than tail.


  but these are table stakes.
our city is on the cusp of profound changes and we need a mayor with the vision and capacity to lead.


  toronto became a city in the industrial age, a period that saw the rise of mass industrial production, mass media, mass education, and mass marketing.
powerful forces pushed out products such as cars, newspapers, television shows, university lectures, services, and advertisements to passive recipients.


  we created wealth through large corporations and built our city around the automobile.
our urban form separated where we work (downtown), live (the suburbs) and shop (the malls).
cars consumed energy and exhaled toxins.
our low density hampered the growth of vibrant communities.


  we fretted as to whether our number of theatre productions, art galleries, good restaurants and professional sports teams made us world-class.
these indices still matter.
but there are bigger opportunities on the table.


  we are undergoing huge transformation precipitated by the internet and the digital revolution.
it gives us access to the knowledge and intelligence in the crania of people across the city and around the world.
our economy is increasingly based on brain, not brawn.
moving into the networked age provides new opportunities to transform the very warp and woof of the city — to reinvent our local infrastructure and institutions as more collaborative and participatory, powerful and effective — to create a prosperous, sustainable, vibrant and open city.


  to be sure, some of these changes fall beyond the authority of the mayor and local government.
we need to change the dumb power grid that pushes electricity out to devices to a power grid that looks more like the internet, with devices contributing to and drawing from the system.
we need to move from the industrial model of teachers lecturing students and move to a more student-focused model in which educators exploit digital technologies and engage with small work groups.


  we need to transform our clinician-focused health care to one where citizens take a more active role in promoting good health.
while these are not municipal dossiers, the municipal government must be part of the solution.
ours is an increasingly complex world, resistant to simple and clearly delineated questions and answers.


  but so far the discussion has focused on fiscal responsibility (on the right) and divvying up the pie differently (on the left).
the debate needs to shift to how we govern, move around, create prosperity, take care of our citizens, and sustain our world.


  mayoralty candidates must acknowledge that the city is in a crisis that goes far beyond the incumbent’s buffoonery.
there are much bigger issues.
they include:
.

  in the industrial age, traditional corporations created wealth.
tariffs nurtured car companies, strong banks provided financial services and big shopping malls made us spend money.
but today our youth jobless level is above 15 per cent and pundits predict decades of structural unemployment.
we can’t look to u.s


  entrepreneurs are the key to prosperity and employment.
companies less than five years old create 80 per cent of new jobs.
digital technologies mean small companies can challenge large firms.
one study found that readily available resources such as open-source software, cloud computing, and the rise of virtual office infrastructure have driven the cost of launching an internet venture down from $5 million in 1997 to less than $50,000 today.


  which mayoral candidate will lead us in making toronto the startup capital of the world? rather than championing the waterfront as an ideal casino venue, we need a mayor that takes a page from boston — developing a startup and innovation area in the redeveloped waterfront.
we need to nurture our homegrown entrepreneurs and attract new entrepreneurs from afar.


  talking only about how to control local government costs misses the point.
the industrial age model of government bureaucracy is stalled.
the solution is not simply to slash budgets.
toronto needs to embrace the next wave of innovation and fundamentally redesign how it operates, how and what the city provides, and how it interacts and engages with its citizens.


  we need to open up by releasing data to the world.
imagine if the mayor led a process to get all institutions to provide raw data into a citywide platform.
this would go beyond opening the data troves of the municipal government to include data from hospitals, schools, the transportation system, the power grid, laboratories and stores.
in doing so we could engender self-organizing networks involving the private sector, ngo’s, academics, foundations, individuals and other government agencies to create public value.
this has nothing to do with outsourcing, but rather it’s a change in the division of labour in society about how we create services and public value overall.


  the industrial model of public safety was that police kept passive citizens safe.
innovative cities now have more connected law enforcement agencies that involve citizens in creating a safer community.
networks help boost police visibility, simplify the ease and accuracy of citizen reporting, and keep visible statistics on police follow-up, conviction rates, and so on.
cities have objective measures of whether matters are getting better or worse, and help pinpoint areas needing extra attention.


  in toronto this transformation has already started, led by deputy chief peter sloly.
he says: “social media, mobile technologies, and new analytics tools are enabling deep changes in policing.
we can use these tools to better engage and mobilize citizens to help citizens co-produce safety in their own neighborhoods.
at the same time the police are better able to sense and respond in real-time to dangers.
this is one of the biggest changes to policing in a generation and the opportunities are pretty much unlimited.”


  enough about burying the gardiner and subways versus lrts.
most thoughtful people see lrts as the better way.
but our mayor needs to provide leadership for the next generation of transportation and so far the topic hasn’t even come up.
soon there will be autonomous vehicles moving around the streets of toronto, guided by electronics and not the person behind the wheel.


  indeed, it has already happened.
google’s autonomous vehicles have completed over 500,000 kilometres of road tests in the united states.
the only accident to date was when a google car was hit from behind at a red light.


  further, according to a university of california study every car-sharing vehicle replaces nine to 13 cars.
so combine autonomous vehicles with new incentives for ride-sharing to exploit excess capacity in cars, along with low-emission vehicles, and we could have a “virtual” public transportation system for the entire city — with almost no cost to government.


  with the industrial age products came industrial-grade grime and pollution.
in her new book,
  
    the sixth extinction
  
  , elizabeth kolbert explains that man-made climate change will precipitate what biologists call the sixth mass extinction — the elimination of 20 to 50 per cent of plant and animal species by the end of the century.
“right now,” she writes, “we are deciding, without quite meaning to, which evolutionary pathways will remain open and which will forever be closed.”


  we can’t continue as before, and as canada’s largest city, we need to be a leader in reducing carbon, and promoting cleaner air and water.
digital technologies can help us move to networked models of air and water management.
new modes of distribution and monitoring (including independent citizen monitoring) can improve the air and water security and quality.
easy initiatives such as telecommuting can reduce pollution and carbon emissions.


  in the past governments delivered social services to needy people.
today we can engage those in need to kickstart social development and justice.
the centre for addiction and mental health is building a vast campus in the heart of toronto at queen and dufferin.
rather than an old-style institution it’s building an urban village to integrate with the local community.
instead of simply delivering services to people with problems it’s attempting to collaborate with them, build communities, and reduce isolation, which is the number one risk factor in health, according to u.s
national institutes of health studies.


  a number of young people have created “camh engage,” which seeks to build a movement across the city and country to lower the stigma about mental health, involve thousands of youth in fundraising, and take the issue of addiction and mental illness into every workplace.


  do any of the candidates understand the reinvention of social services?
.

  in the industrial age we had an industrial-style, top-down democracy.
we elected politicians who talked amongst themselves and passed laws.
we had accountable institutions of governance, but with a weak public mandate and an inert citizenry.


  digital technologies now enable a new era of much greater citizen involvement in government.
digital networks enable all citizens to become active, know what is going on in the city and contribute their ideas.
a culture of public deliberation and active citizenship will help achieve social cohesion, good government and shared norms.


  this is not direct democracy: it is about a new model of citizen engagement and politics appropriate for the 21st century.
we need this to stop the abuse of trust by office holders which alienates citizens and produces bumper stickers that say “don’t vote.
it only encourages them.”


  american political sociologist seymour martin lipset wrote that legitimacy is “the capacity of a political system to engender and maintain the belief that existing political institutions are the most appropriate and proper ones for the society.” to rebuild the public’s trust in our mayor, city council and other political institutions, elected officials need to embrace the principles of honesty, consideration and accountability
we need candidates for mayor that go beyond simply discussing parochial issues and mudslinging.


  the toronto star’s
  
    big ideas challenge
  
  was a great start.
but we need a mayor who understands the new paradigm in democracy and can drive innovations in citizen engagement.


  there is more to municipal life than cost control, and for that matter we can’t fund the creation of an open, networked and global city through property taxes.
as cities become more important we need a mayor who can lead in a national discussion on how to reinvent canadian federalism and provide cities and mayors with the resources and power they need.


  
    don tapscott (
    
      @dtapscott
    
    ) is an adjunct professor at the rotman school of management and the chancellor of trent university.
he is speaking on “rethinking government and democracy” march 5, 6:30 p.m
toronto reference library, 789 yonge st., toronto
reserve a seat at:
    
      govtdemocracy.eventbrite.ca
    
  

doug ford strongly criticized potential mayoral candidate john tory on wednesday for tory's comments about professional women, calling tory's words “chauvinistic” and calling tory “one of the elites of the 1 per cent.”
tory, the wealthy former rogers executive and former leader of the provincial progressive conservatives, is considering a run against rob ford.
doug ford, a city councillor, is the campaign manager for his brother.
doug ford is a millionaire conservative businessman.
he has not previously used the “1 per cent” rhetoric of the occupy movement to attack a rival.
tory said monday on cp24 that the pay gap between men and women might exist because “the women don’t come as often to complain.” addressing the subject again on his newstalk 1010 show later in the day, he said, “young women, right now, learn how to play golf...it’s immensely advantageous to your career.”
doug ford told reporters wednesday: “i don’t agree with his comments.
since he’s part of the 1 per cent and he’s part of the establishment, and he’s one of the elites of the 1 per cent, that’s his theory of being successful.
join the golf course, join the private club, be with the elitists, be with the establishment and then you’ll all be rich after.
well, that’s a bunch of nonsense.”
ford added: “he should stick with the radio, that’s what he should be doing.
i think it’s just a chauvinistic comment.
i have four girls.
none of them golf.
all the women out there that don’t golf, they aren’t going to be successful? i think it’s a biased, chauvinistic comment and i think he should stick to his radio show.”
the only prominent female candidate to declare so far, councillor karen stintz, said in the text of a january speech that ford's “conduct towards women in his public statements have been reprehensible.”
tory represents a threat to ford's prospects.
ford’s camp made a deliberate effort in 2010 to attempt to keep tory out of that election, in which ford defeated liberal george smitherman.
doug ford's words likely represent a preview of their planned line of attack against tory if he runs this time: despite their own wealth, they portray themselves as outsiders who take on the establishment on behalf of average people.
councillor jaye robinson will support tory if he runs.
she said tory’s “unfortunate” comments were “off the cuff” and do not reflect “how he is as a person.”
when the canadian football league was in trouble, they turned to him.
so did civic leaders, the business class and social activists, when civic convener extraordinaire david pecaut died too soon.
tory took up the cause of civicaction and has been leading the charge for a livable toronto region ever since.
what we are about to find out is whether tory has grit.
is he willing to get his hands dirty? is he prepared to scratch and claw and fight for the future of his city? does he have game?.
it will take all that and more for him to become the 65th mayor of toronto on oct.

on day one of tory’s run for mayor, incumbent mayor rob ford and brother doug unveiled the obvious attack strategy directed at the challenger.
tory, the former leader of the province’s progressive conservatives and talk radio host, is part of the establishment, they cried.
that is supposed to be a slur; that is supposed to disqualify tory from leading the country’s biggest city — a city dragged through the muck by the wealthy and fraudulent fords, masquerading as common folk.
tory’s response — in word and attitude, in debates and in strategy — has to be: “yes, i’m part of the establishment.
it’s a calling i embrace, one that propels me to value every corner of the city; one that forces me to respect all taxpayers; one that drives me to build on the foundation set by so many before.
“respect for taxpayers means just that: respect.
and respect is lost when the children of the city can’t look up to their mayor and say, ‘i’m gonna be like him.’ respect is diminished when parents can’t be proud of their mayor’s conduct or must be cautious about voicing the mayor’s name, lest they must embark on a lesson about substance abuse.”
by most measures, tory would make the quintessential toronto mayor.
he feels the city in his bones.
he may be “blue-blood elite” as the brawling brothers ford describe, but tory has forgotten more about the city of toronto than both fords ever learned.
to run away from the comparisons is to cede the playground to the bully.
tory must stand up to the brash, vacuous blowhards.
and, in so doing, demonstrate his moxie.
the 2014 race for mayor is a referendum on the ford years.
a significant segment of toronto couldn’t care less about the city’s image.
neither do they wish their tax dollars to support arts grants nor breakfast programs for kids.
ditto, subsidized housing.
that is their privilege.
and ford is their hero.
but toronto was not built on that kind of self-centred, rugged individualism that defines our american friends.
here, we share ideals and our tax base so that neighbours not privileged to live near the bank towers can get a good education.
many here ride the subways and buses and trains because they care about the environment, not because they have no other option.
this is the toronto that wants to be rid of rob ford.
this is also the toronto that cares about wise spending of scarce tax dollars.
and that combination is tory’s attraction and promise.
he has the potential to offer fiscal prudence without the drama and crassness and circus of the ford regime.
and he has proven capable of acting with a social conscience.
for tory to win, first he must drive that message home to ford supporters who are repulsed by the mayor’s actions but want to keep taxes low.
they need to know that by moving to tory they retain the “good ford” even as they abandon the “bad ford.”
that may require a more combative john tory — one not afraid to mix it up with the bullies.
and there are signs tory realizes this.
he has brought nick kouvalis into his camp — the same kouvalis who, working for ford in 2010, devised rough-house tactics that spooked tory and kept him out of the race.
kouvalis is not my cup of tea.
he would not be welcomed within a stone’s throw of my campaign tent.
but i’m not a politician and am not running for mayor.
tory has no such luxury — not if he is compelled to rid toronto of the most combustible mayor in modern times.
kevin frankish talks live to john tory before he officially enters the mayoral race at city hall monday morning.

				john tory registers for the mayor's race with clerk gail baker at toronto city hall on monday.
			
tory, the former provincial progressive conservative leader, and stintz, the councillor and former ttc chair, registered monday to run for mayor of toronto.
speaking in generalities, both promised to build a downtown subway relief line, keep taxes low, and bring the city together.
neither mentioned ford’s name.
ford attacked them directly.
taking to talk radio, he said both stintz and tory are “revenue-tool-happy” taxers who do not truly believe subways are preferable to light rail transit.
neither, he said, has nearly the record he does.
the first hours of the first big day of the 10-month mayoral election revealed the likely contours of the early-campaign weeks to come.
tory, the leading centre-right challenger, and stintz, another centre-right candidate, will promote their own virtues while treading carefully around ford.
ford will attempt to define them before they can define themselves.
all three attempted to dodge questions on transit taxes.
tory would not say how he would pay for a downtown relief line, promising details “in due course.” stintz claimed she could build the relief line without any new taxes — though the example she cited, the scarborough subway extension, required a dedicated property tax

  “let’s not do what we’ve done for years in this city, which is sit around looking at the one we’re building now and saying ‘isn’t that great’ and then wait 10 years to get on with the next one.
i’m saying get on with it now.
we need it now.
people are like sardines in the subway and on the buses and trying to get around the city.
and that’s about people living in the suburbs and getting to and from work and so on.”

answering readers’ questions on the mayoral race.

  “i think rob has a record to stand on.
john doesn’t have a record to stand on,” doug ford told newstalk 1010 late sunday.
“and we’re going to address that moving forward.
we look forward to the 110 debates, that’s going to come out on some of his views.”

with the monday entry of tory and stintz and the january registration of david soknacki, the roster of credible challengers to ford is probably complete — except for the campaign frontrunner, ndp mp olivia chow.
insiders on her campaign-in-waiting say she will sign up by the end of march.
implicitly contrasting himself with ford, he said he would be “a mayor that’s going to focus on getting people to work together to get things done.” he dismissed the suggestion of a divide between downtown and the suburbs.
“they want transit to get built, they want low taxes, especially property taxes; they want jobs and investment; and they want a government that works, that works with each other instead of against each other,” he said.
“so i don’t think there’s any divide there, and the challenge is for a candidate to come forward to say they’re going to be mayor of all of the city.” 
stintz said she is a “responsible and accountable leader” who would be fiscally prudent while “also delivering on the priorities of this city.” 
offering a few more specifics than tory, she said she would alleviate traffic congestion, seek to reconfigure the eastern gardiner expressway, pursue a bid for the 2026 world cup, and make neighbourhoods safer.
“my track record speaks to itself,” she said.
“over the past 10 years, i’ve been fighting for fiscal accountability, and while at the ttc, we made some changes that were focused entirely on the customer.
and so those are the kinds of things i want to bring to city hall.”
tory, stintz and soknacki are all moderate conservatives.
all three favour the downtown relief line.
soknacki, however, would cancel the three-stop scarborough subway in favour of the cheaper seven-stop lrt originally planned.
stintz and tory would both build the funded subway.
ford’s transit priorities are the sheppard subway extension that council rejected in 2012, a new subway line on finch ave.

the relief line, which could cost more than $7 billion, would run through the downtown core, in a u-shape down from the eastern and western segments of the bloor-danforth line, or reaching as far north as eglinton ave.
it would ease overcrowding on the yonge-university line.
despite their support for the relief line, ford accused them of favouring light rail, which he described again as “fancy streetcars.” ford said toronto is “10 times better off than it was three years ago."

				john tory, in blue shirt at right, looks on as mayor rob ford makes an appearance at the raising of the rainbow flag to kick off pride week festivities at city hall.
(june 24, 2013)
			.
that’s the key question john tory must answer this summer before he commits formally to entering the 2014 toronto mayoral race.
tory, the popular radio talk-show host and former ontario conservative leader, is being urged by high-profile conservatives and liberals to challenge mayor ford and ndp mp olivia chow, the current front-runner, in the october 2014 election.
his comment last week that he is “thinking about” taking on ford and chow has thrown the unofficial race into temporary disarray.
that’s because his entry into the race would hurt chow by appealing to centrist voters who are fed up with ford and might have voted for her as an alternative.
also, his candidacy could shatter the mayoral dreams of ttc chair karen stintz, who without tory in the race might well surprise voters with a well-organized, well-funded campaign.
to win, tory needs to attract voters on both sides of the political divide.
in particular, he must draw significant support away from ford.
here are five bold ideas, suggested by several top politicians and strategists who backed tory in the past, that he should take if he hopes to chip away at ford’s support.

stop dithering: before the last election, tory spent a year trying to decide whether to enter the race.
in january 2010, tory ended months of speculation by announcing he wouldn’t run.
but then he immediately started to reconsider.
finally, eight months later in august, tory announced yet again he wasn’t running.
tory’s indecisiveness drove supporters crazy.
it also prompted many veteran campaign organizers and fundraisers who might have worked for other candidates to sit on the sidelines waiting for him to make up his mind.
“we simply can’t go through that again,” says a suburban councillor.
“it would reinforce the image as tory as a ditherer, not a decisive, conservative leader the city needs at this time.”

praise ford: as strange as it may seem, tory should salute ford for his efforts to “stop the gravy train” and for trying to control city hall spending.
such a step is necessary because tory must avoid unleashing the wrath of ford nation.
it would also be hard for ford to attack an opponent who is praising him for a job well done.
simultaneously, though, tory must explain why it’s time for a new mayor who, like ford, is fiscally prudent and yet, unlike ford, has the skills, stature and co-operative nature needed to move toronto forward in the years ahead.

run to the left of ford: tory needs to clearly differentiate himself from ford on key policy issues.
he can’t compete with ford’s “no-tax, no-way” platform.
instead, he should “run off the left hip” of ford, says a former tory campaign organizer.
that means selling himself as fiscally prudent, but also acknowledging the city must generate more revenues if it hopes to modernize its decaying services and infrastructure.

go big in the suburbs: as much as he might disagree, tory is seen as one of the “downtown elites,” a group ford loves to bash.
to prove he truly understands the suburbs, tory must campaign on extending transit to the suburbs and tackling crime, rather than focusing, say, on the island airport, waterfront development or yonge street corridor.
ultimately, tory should decide by october whether he is in or out of the race.
what progressives can learn from the federal election.
the star's public editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 harper’s gone, why not the ford boys?: hepburncomments
					.
lean, a conservative lawyer now at the firm gowlings, said wednesday that he will sit out the campaign and instead serve as a commentator on friend stephen ledrew’s cp24 show.
“you can say to the world: they will not get a call from mr.
lean here,” he said.
“i used to have people — because i would do so much charitable and political fundraising — they would see me, they would go to the other side of the street.


now, they see me, they’ll shake my hand.”
lean said he thinks his importance is “far overrated.” some political strategists, such as olivia chow organizer john laschinger, have said the same
still, his departure from ford’s camp is another indication of the mayor’s isolation and organizational challenge as he prepares to confront the sophisticated machines backing john tory and likely candidate chow.
nearly two months into the 10-month campaign, ford has not announced the names of any aides other than campaign manager doug ford, not even a spokesperson.
his website is a one-page shell.
and doug ford has made public and private efforts to obtain the mayor’s voter data from 2010, suggesting that he is no longer in possession of this valuable information.
the official spending limit this time is about $1.3 million
candidates can both raise and spend much more, since fundraising events are exempt from the limit.
they can also borrow if they need to: ford had a post-campaign debt of a whopping $800,000.
lean has raised money in all but one of toronto’s elections since 1980, backing only two losers.
though he planned to support john tory if tory ran in 2010, he said his decision to abandon ford has nothing to do with any candidate or the mayor’s scandal-plagued last five months.
he noted that his former law firm, heenan blaikie, recently collapsed.
he said he now doesn’t have the time to get involved in a campaign.
on monday, doug ford dismissed the importance of big donors, noting that his brother is supported by many average residents.
tory, he said, will receive cheques for the maximum $2,500; “with rob ford, we raise $20 cheques.”
lean said the fords are indeed “pretty self-sufficient.” and he said others in the business community are raising money for the mayor.
lean said conservatives tory, ford and stintz will all compete for the same bay street support.
his “money” contacts, he said, are united in opposition to olivia chow, the ndp mp who would be the flag-bearer for the left.
“so what money might do,” lean said, “is sit back and wait until the summer, and see who is the alternative to olivia chow.
so it might make early money more difficult.”
more on the upcoming toronto municipal election.
tory will file his registration papers at city hall on monday, about an hour and a half before councillor karen stintz files her own.
the civic advocate, talk radio host and former leader of the provincial progressive conservatives will become the most formidable declared challenger to incumbent rob ford.
in an announcement video to be posted monday on his website, tory said he would make toronto “more livable, more affordable, and more functional.” he identified the downtown subway relief line as his top policy priority, saying that “livable means, first and foremost these days, tackling congestion.”
tory said he would keep taxes low, “especially property taxes.” and without mentioning the proudly uncompromising ford, who has lost numerous key votes and who has pledged a “war” on members of council, he touted himself as a consensus-builder and willing listener whose inclusive style achieves results.
“you’re not going to be able to tackle gridlock in the streets if you’ve got gridlock at city hall,” tory said.
“building a great city means people working together.
my whole career has been about bringing people together.
i ran a big company (rogers cable) that employed thousands of people.
i ran the united way campaign in every corner of the city.
and i ran the canadian football league.
i’ve learned that you can’t conclude, on the basis of your own opinion, that that guy over there is wrong or that you can’t work with him or won’t work with him.”
with voting day eight months away, the low-hum early campaign will now intensify: all-but-certain candidate olivia chow, the ndp mp, is now the only rumoured contender who will not have registered as of monday.
all three of the active challengers to the conservative ford — tory, stintz, and former councillor david soknacki — are on the centre-right.
tory, 59, is a vocal advocate of the need for new taxes to pay for transit expansion.
ford imposed a new property tax to pay for the planned subway extension to the scarborough rt, but he criticized tory last week for holding “tax, tax, tax” views.
campaign manager doug ford attacked tory for his wealth and connections despite the fords’ own, calling tory “part of the establishment” and “one of the elites of the 1 per cent.”
“i think rob has a record to stand on.
john doesn't have a record to stand on,” doug ford told newstalk 1010 late sunday.
“and we're going to address that moving forward.
we look forward to the 110 debates, that's going to come out on some of his views.”
tory ran for mayor and lost in 2003, and he lost a general election and a byelection as pc leader before he resigned in 2009.
he has recently maintained a high-profile public presence as the chair of civicaction, an advocacy group, and as the host of an afternoon-rush show on newstalk 1010; his reluctance to surrender the radio perch, as he will now have to do, likely accounts for the delayed entry for which he has been criticized.
the long-discussed downtown relief line is the preferred project of the ttc’s chief executive.
the line — which tory called “the yonge st.
subway relief line,” a politically preferable formulation — would run in a u shape down into the downtown core from the east and west sides of the bloor-danforth line, and possibly from as far north as eglinton ave., relieving pressure on the crowded yonge-university-spadina line.
stintz too will campaign for the relief line.
ford says it is his third transit priority, behind a sheppard ave.
subway extension, which council rejected in 2012, and a new line on finch ave.
soknacki wants to scrap the scarborough subway and build the cheaper light rail line that was originally planned.
tory is supported by a long list of prominent people.
the roster includes former deputy mayor case ootes, who ran ford’s 2010 transition team; liberal provincial minister brad duguid; gail nyberg, executive director of the daily bread food bank; and ontario pc president richard ciano, whose business partner, former ford campaign chief nick kouvalis, will be part of tory’s campaign.
after months of uncertainty, john tory is preparing to jump into the race to become toronto’s next mayor.
at the rally, tory will unveil a campaign platform that features four key points: a call for more transit and an improved ttc; a youth employment strategy to combat growing joblessness among residents under 25; a renewed focus on city-wide economic development; and a restoration of decorum and co-operation at city hall after the turmoil seen under mayor rob ford.
also, tory organizers are lining up a bipartisan crowd of business, political and community leaders who will publicly declare their support for the popular radio talk-show host and former provincial conservative leader who finished a close second to david miller in the 2003 mayoral race.
 “he will definitely run,” declared a long-time tory confidante and friend who has a major role in the campaign.
he made the statement on monday, the day before a new video surfaced that caught ford impaired, rambling and swearing at toronto police chief bill blair.
ford admitted he had been drinking when the video was shot on monday night, less than three weeks after registering to seek re-election and after he had vowed not to drink again.
“well, that (video) certainly sealed it” for tory, the campaign strategist said late tuesday, referring to the ford video.
tory’s official entry into the race will end months of speculation and will alter the entire dynamics of the election.
with ford embroiled in yet another controversy, the oct.
27 contest could easily end up being a two-way battle between ndp mp olivia chow and tory.
chow is expected to announce her candidacy in late february as well, after completing her current book tour promoting her new autobiography, which is considered the unofficial launch of her mayoral bid.
tory’s entry in the race will spell trouble for  councillor karen stintz, a moderate conservative like tory.
stintz has attracted a surprising level of support from conservatives and liberals, albeit many of whom are “parking” their support with the ttc chair awaiting a decision by tory.
over the past months, tory has conducted his own thorough analysis of the toronto political scene.
“he wanted to ensure he would have bipartisan backing — from across the board and across the city,” the campaign organizer said.
“he’s been smart to wait and check things out.
in short, he’s done his homework.
he feels comfortable in his own skin and has got it into his head that it’s not the end for him if he loses.”
many observers believed tory might not enter the race for fear of being embarrassed if he lost a second mayoral contest.
asked about tory’s wife, barbara hackett, who apparently was reluctant to see her husband re-enter elective politics, the strategist replied with a smile: “she’s all good.”
once launched, campaign managers for tory will portray him as an experienced leader with a substantial resume, including having had a career as a lawyer, a former top executive for rogers communications and a major volunteer for numerous charitable organizations.
he currently serves as chair of civicaction, one of the most important groups in the city.
as well, they note that in 2003 tory won 38.5 per cent of the votes, a proven base of support
he scored particularly well in the north yonge area and major parts of north york and etobicoke.
while his team is set to go, a well-placed source familiar with tory’s thinking insists tory hasn’t completely made up his mind yet, even after the revelation tuesday of more damaging ford videos.
“yes, it’s true,” says the source, who knows tory as well as anyone, that tory has asked the campaign team to prepare for a full election, including developing policy papers and checking out locations for the kickoff event.
“there are plenty of people who are doing work” on tory’s behalf, he said.
“they’ve put a lot of effort into this and will be very disappointed” if tory ultimately decides to remain on the sidelines, he admits.
until they hear differently, though, the team is ready.
the kickoff rally is planned; the fundraising is being lined up; the signs are being designed.
all is set for john tory to hit the ground running.
what progressives can learn from the federal election.
the star's public editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 harper’s gone, why not the ford boys?: hepburncomments
					.
