Cesar Palacio beats Alejandra Bravo for the third time in Ward 17, Davenportcomments
.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
John Tory was elected mayor of Toronto on Oct.
27, 2014.
Tory beat out Doug Ford and Olivia Chow to win the position.

				John Tory waits to cast his ballot Monday at the polling station at OISE on Bloor St.
			
In a repudiation of the past four years and an expression of hope for the four to come, Toronto’s voters have elected John Tory as their next mayor.
He is fully entitled to celebrate, having never taken victory for granted, successfully come from behind in the polls, and banished a defeat-prone political image.
And Torontonians have good reason to cheer as well.
The result was closer than many had expected, with Doug Ford delivering a strong second-place showing.
It’s a testament to the resilience of so-called Ford Nation.
Olivia Chow, who started out the marathon campaign as the front-runner, ended it a distant third.
Had she run a stronger campaign she might well have drained enough votes from Tory to allow Ford to slip into the mayor’s office.
The city is lucky that didn’t happen.
“Tonight we begin the work of building One Toronto — a prosperous, fair, respected and caring Toronto,” Tory told cheering supporters in his victory speech.
“We now begin building Toronto the Great.”
As mayor of Canada’s largest city, Tory will be in a unique position: no politician in the country is directly elected by more people.
And he alone on city council will represent all residents — everyone — not just those in a particular ward.
That should put him on solid ground when recruiting political allies in support of his policies.
Tory pledged to work with city council to move Toronto “not left, not right, but forward.” And that’s exactly the direction it needs to go.
His first order of business should be to take the measure of Toronto’s new council and pull together a coalition of sympathetic councillors to back his agenda.
It’s impossible to get much done without that.
Flexibility is essential.
It may be necessary to tailor different coalitions on various issues.
Former mayors Mel Lastman and David Miller were exceedingly skilled at this, hardly ever losing a vote.
Departing mayor Rob Ford was just the opposite, floundering about with minimal support in the last half of his term, sometimes mustering just two votes in favour of what he wanted to do — his own and that of his brother Doug.
Given Tory’s centrist views and a proven ability to draw support from across the political spectrum, he is well-placed to move his issues successfully through council.
A key early vote should be on Tory’s controversial SmartTrack transit plan.
Decisions must happen quickly if this massive, 22-station “surface subway” project is to have any chance of delivery before Tory’s promised seven-year deadline.
A vital first step is securing city council approval.
There isn’t much point in asking Queen’s Park and Ottawa for billions of additional transit dollars for the mayor’s plan if council isn’t on board with the project.
But SmartTrack isn’t the only issue demanding attention.
Although Chow lost her bid to become mayor she effectively spotlighted the plight of Toronto’s disadvantaged and proposed a number of sound measures to ease their plight.
Lifting a page from her policy book, Tory should be open to introducing some progressive social programs early in his term.
Many of the challenges facing Toronto are shared by municipalities across the country.
A great many communities need new public transit and are grappling with public housing shortfalls and massive infrastructure deficits.
As head of Canada’s sixth largest government, Toronto’s mayor is ideally placed to act as a leading urban advocate at the national level.
Tory should take up that mantle and press forward with a shared civic agenda.
With a federal election expected next fall, the coming year will be an ideal time to promote municipal issues and try to wring gains from the major federal parties.
After enduring four years of embarrassment, service cuts, ethics violations, wasteful public transit flip-flops, rampant bullying, broken promises and political drift, Torontonians are ready for change at city hall.
Tory comes to office with considerable public goodwill.
That should stand him in good stead as he dons the mayor’s chain of office.
This city is yearning for someone who will pull people together: rich and poor; blue collar and white; downtowners and suburbanites; and Toronto’s many ethnic communities.
After all the strife, bitterness and antagonism that characterized the Ford era, Tory’s job — beyond all else — is to heal.
He won our endorsement because we felt Tory has the dedication, skill, vision, experience, commitment and compassion that Toronto needs at this critical point in its history.
The voters agreed.
Now every resident of this city should hope he succeeds.
The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  If you are on mobile,
  
    please click here for the interactive poll tracker.
  

Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Ella Peck, 12, (left) and Nora Switzer-Cook, 12, are Grade 7 students at Horizon Alternative School who voted in the mock election Friday.
			
Throughout the past week, Toronto elementary and high school students voted in mock elections organized by Student Vote, a program operated by national charitable organization CIVIX.
The program lets students in on the adults-only democratic process and mock elections are held parallel to real elections.
“Olivia Chow’s gonna care about us,” said student Lilianne Uwababyevi, but seconds later touting the Ford benefits.
“Doug Ford and Rob Ford has been trying to get transit going around and stuff.”
Around 250 Toronto schools took part in the mock municipal election.
On Friday, hip hop and rap music blasted through the hallways at Central Toronto Academy as over 100 students turned out to vote.
“We want students to be involved and be engaged and be aware of what’s happening in our city,” said principal Iwona Kurman.
“Hopefully when these people turn 18, they understand the importance of voting.”
Student Jonathan Serrano, 18, said he’d vote in the actual election Monday.
“My group of friends, we all like (Doug) Ford more,” said the Grade 12 student.
“We think the family’s interesting, unlike John Tory.
He’s kind of boring.”
Although the student vote won’t enact change, it does give insight into the political preferences of young people.
Interestingly, the student vote results often ends up aligning with the actual vote outcomes, said CIVIX president Taylor Gunn.
Grade 10 civics students at the school have been researching mayoral, city council and trustee candidates in their ward, Trinity-Spadina, for weeks.
Some gave speeches in front of the school, acting as one of the mayoral frontrunners, and on Friday they worked as scrutineers at the hallway polling station.
Most students seemed dead set on their mayoral choice – Kurman called the school Olivia Chow territory – despite not knowing much about their platforms.
But many had strong, informed opinions about the issues they care about.
Selina Guiliano, 17, said she takes transit to school every day and wants to see faster, more frequent buses service around the city.
She’ll be voting when she’s of legal voting age but has no interest in becoming a politician.
But for her students, who grew up in countries without democracy and where women can’t attend school, the voting process itself is meaningful.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
John Tory was elected mayor of Toronto on Oct.
27, 2014.
Tory beat out Doug Ford and Olivia Chow to win the position.
Tory promised “sensible, competent, accountable” leadership after four years of scandal and upheaval under Rob Ford.
His win over second-place Doug Ford and third-place Olivia Chow, in an election with record turnout, is a repudiation of the brothers whose unruly behaviour and incendiary remarks outraged most of the city.
It heralds a return to normalcy in local government.
“Voters want their elected officials to get down to work on the priorities that matter most to them: better transit, more jobs, an end to the gridlock that is choking our streets,” Tory said in his victory speech.
“And the electorate has spoken on one other issue: Torontonians want to see an end to the division that has paralyzed city hall the last few years.
And to all of that, I say: Toronto, I hear you.
I hear you loud and clear.
You want results.
And together with the city council, we will deliver.”
Tory received about 40 per cent of the vote, Ford about 34 per cent, Chow about 23 per cent.
Tory’s comfortable victory, by a margin of more than 60,000 votes, was slightly closer than the double-digit cruise suggested by the most recent opinion polls.
Ford’s competitiveness demonstrated the enduring loyalty of the family’s base of supporters, concentrated in low-income neighbourhoods in Etobicoke and Scarborough.
But the massive turnout underscored the extent to which Toronto voters sought change.
More than 980,000 people cast ballots, 61 per cent of the electorate; the previous post-amalgamation turnout record, set in 2010, was 51 per cent.
A full two-thirds chose someone other than Ford.
“As your new mayor, I will work with the council that the people of Toronto elected tonight in moving Toronto not left, not right, but forward.
I will be a balanced and accountable leader.
And we’re going to do this together,” Tory said.
Tory’s win came as a relief to Premier Kathleen Wynne, whose Liberal MPPs, including several ministers, overwhelmingly backed the former Progressive Conservative leader.
Told of the election result during a trade mission in China, Wynne said, “Hallelujah.”
Tory, who launched his campaign in a distant third place, took the lead three months ago.
But the steady polling trend line belies the mayhem of a campaign in which the celebrity incumbent left the city for two months to receive treatment for drug and alcohol addiction, was diagnosed with a rare cancer, and was replaced on the ballot by his brother a mere 45 days before the vote.

				John Tory was elected the 65th mayor of Toronto on Monday.
			
Tory rose on the strength of his centrist good-government message, agreeably staid personality and a single signature policy proposal, the “SmartTrack” surface rail line he claimed would “solve” the city’s traffic congestion problem “quickly.” With the help of endorsement upon endorsement from members of the Liberal caucus, he beat one-time front-runner Chow, a former New Democrat MP, in the critical battle for middle-of-the-road voters.
Council will decide in 2015 on the future of the elevated eastern portion of the Gardiner Expressway; Tory favours a proposal to reconfigure the expressway rather than taking it down.
And council will vote in 2015 on whether to allow jets to fly from the island airport; Tory has not taken a position, and he may have to recuse himself from the debate because of a potential conflict of interest.
Tory said his top priority is addressing the city’s traffic and transportation woes.
He will soon embark on complicated discussions with the provincial and federal governments over SmartTrack, which he pitched as a 53-kilometre, 22-stop, $8-billion project built in no more than seven years.
His proposal dovetails with Wynne’s proposal to electrify GO Transit lines.
The mayor has just one vote on the 45-member council.
Tory will have to deal with a very vocal and very famous antagonist: Rob Ford was elected to his former Etobicoke North council seat despite his inability to campaign.
Ford, still dealing with cancer that he has said he has a “50-50” chance of surviving, told the Toronto Sun that he “will be running for mayor in four years.” He was combative in his victory speech, saying he would “never, ever give up” and telling supporters to “just watch in four more years, folks.”
Still, Doug Ford’s defeat effectively concludes the chaotic and oft-surreal period in which Toronto became a fixture on late-night U.S
comedy shows — Ford was lampooned by HBO’s John Oliver for four minutes the night before the election — and the mayor was the world’s most famous municipal politician.
“I know this is not the result that all of us wanted tonight, but I also have the satisfaction of knowing that we ran a phenomenal, phenomenal campaign, and for that every one of our team should be extremely proud,” he said in his concession speech.
“I will go to sleep knowing that I gave it absolutely everything.”
Ford returned to the hyperbole that has characterized his public statements.
“Friends, it is rewarding to know we are living in a much better shape than we found this city four years ago.
We introduced the idea of government for the people,” he said, using a phrase popularized by Abraham Lincoln.
Chow began the campaign as the clear favourite.
After months of attempting to establish her bona fides as a budget-minded centrist, she altered her message after Labour Day — newly identifying herself as a “progressive,” proposing a tax hike on the rich to pay for an expansion of student meal programs, and touting social policies intended to help marginalized people and neighbourhoods.
She, too, attacked Tory relentlessly, joining with Ford in an uncoordinated late-campaign assault on the untested technical and financial components of the SmartTrack plan.
Tory brushed off his two main opponents as needlessly negative “members of the can’t-do-it committee,” and their criticism never appeared to resonate.
Chow delivered an upbeat concession speech in which she urged voters to heed the famous final words of her late husband, NDP leader Jack Layton: “Hope is better than fear.”
“Here’s the thing I want you to remember most of all: keep the faith.
There is a great definition of faith that goes like this: faith is the confidence that what we hope for will actually happen.
So all of us here have the power to bring hope through our actions.
So it’s up to us to make hope happen, all of us,” Chow said.
“This is a good city filled with good people.
Ask that question.
What can we do with each other, for each other? Then go out and be the answer yourself.”
Ford is likely to return to his printing firm, Deco Labels and Tags, as he had planned to do in November, before he suddenly became a candidate.
Chow’s future is uncertain.
She said she would “keep fighting for the causes that matter.”
The campaign formally ran for 10 months, informally even longer.
Tory and Chow participated in more than 50 debates each, on topics as varied as accessibility, the arts and Latino political participation.
But transit was the overwhelming focus throughout.
Chow was first to issue a major proposal, promising to immediately improve rush-hour bus service by 10 per cent.
She was forced to make her proposal less specific when TTC officials said a quick fix wasn’t possible during peak periods.
Tory, who initially led voters to believe the downtown subway relief line was his top priority, radically changed the race when he instead unveiled SmartTrack, a different project.
He mentioned SmartTrack at every available opportunity, demonstrating more message discipline than he had during previous campaigns.
Tory had lost consecutive provincial elections, and he also lost the 2003 mayoral election, in which he had not been favoured.
Chow claimed throughout the spring that she was “the one person” who could beat Rob Ford.
Her argument fizzled in late July, when Tory overtook her in the polls for the first time.
He never trailed again.
Strategic anti-Ford voting appeared to be a significant factor in the outcome.
When fourth-place candidate David Soknacki dropped out of the race in September, he said the election had turned into a “referendum on Rob Ford” rather than a clash of ideas.
Rob Ford took his name off the ballot two days later.
He had run a largely positive campaign focused on his policy achievements, taking personal credit for the “booming” city while asking voters to overlook his crack cocaine scandal and other “personal” failings.
Doug Ford’s abbreviated campaign, launched long after Tory established himself as the man to beat, took on a sharply different tone.
There were 65 people running for mayor.
Ari Goldkind, a lawyer who promised tax increases to pay for transit, placed fourth with about 0.4 per cent of the vote
The others shared 2.5 per cent.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
Ranked ballot should just be the beginning: James.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Outgoing Mayor Hazel McCallion came to congratulate Bonnie Crombie on her win at the Pope John Paul II Polish Cultural Centre.
			
Bonnie Crombie rode her momentum in the final stretch of a closely contested race to replace the beloved Hazel McCallion and begin a new era for Canada’s sixth-largest city.
The race was touted by many as the one to watch in Greater Toronto and Mississauga’s first real mayoral race in 36 years.
under McCallion, who always won in landslides, decided to retire at age 93.
Knowing she’d have huge shoes to fill, Crombie, 54, a one-term Mississauga city councillor and former Liberal MP, vowed to create her own legacy by investing in the city’s infrastructure and stimulating economic growth through “smart-growth” principles.
“Hazel MaCallion has taken our city from farm fields and fruit trees to the sixth largest city in Canada and an economic powerhouse in North American,” Crombie told more than 500 supporters.
“For many, she has been the only mayor they have ever known and her story is truly the stuff of legends.
She has been a mentor to me and I am proud to call her a friend.
I cannot thank her enough for her support.”
“I want to thank my opponent, Steve Mahoney, for his contribution to this campaign and to the debate we have had in this city,” she said.
“Although the campaign was heated at times, Steve was always a gentleman and did not allow our campaign to become personal.”
Mahoney, 67, a former Mississauga councillor and Liberal MPP and MP, had been deemed the one to beat as he garnered endorsements from three major Mississauga-based unions: CUPE Local 966, OPSEU Local 277 and ATU Local 1572.
He also had the support of some Mississauga political heavyweights from across the spectrum, including Conservative MPs Brad Butt and Bob Dechert, Liberal MPPs Harinder Takhar and Bob Delaney, as well as five of the city’s 11 councillors.
Early public polls had shown Crombie trailing Mahoney, but the game changed overnight when McCallion said at a public event, “I say to you, look at the programs — and you have to — of the chief candidates that are running, and I have every confidence that when you review it, you will vote for Bonnie Crombie.”
Those words caught the ears of many Mississauga residents as a subsequent poll showed Crombie leading with 56 per cent, compared with just 31 per cent for Mahoney.
One factor that made the Mississauga mayoral race so tight was that there was little to distinguish the two frontrunners, who had similar backgrounds and almost identical platforms.
Both candidates could claim name recognition in Mississauga, and both offered platforms focused on improving public transit, tackling the city’s growing traffic woes, holding tax increases within the inflation rate and intensifying city-centre developments.
While Crombie’s “Mississauga Moves” plan vowed to invest in the existing MiWay system and GO services, Mahoney’s “Move Mississauga” plan also proposed five local high-occupancy-vehicle (HOV) corridors to ease traffic.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  If you are on mobile,
  
    please click here for the interactive promise tracker
  
  .

Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				David Soknacki speaks to reporters after a speech in December.
The former councillor will be jumping into the race Monday, a typical move for candidates who need time to build name recognition against better known contenders.
			
Mayor Rob Ford is already on the ballot, having filed his paperwork Thursday.
But it looks like the rest of the likely-to-runs — Karen Stintz, John Tory, Olivia Chow and Denzil Minnan-Wong — won’t be getting in for at least another month, possibly as late as early spring.
In a 10-month campaign, when is the right moment for a candidate to make it official?.
Rocco Rossi, who took on Ford and George Smitherman in the last election, says the timing question is a balancing act that’s different for everyone.
In 2010, Rossi signed up as soon as the nomination process opened.
Back then, Rossi was a heavyweight in political circles, having served formerly as the Liberal Party of Canada director, but a virtual unknown to the broader public.
There’s also the issue of money.
Candidates can’t start fundraising until they’ve registered.
A viable mayoral campaign needs a little more than a million dollars.
And all of that takes time.
The downside is that Toronto’s municipal election period is one of the longest — perhaps the longest — in the country.
It spans 10 long and expensive months.
Registration means candidates can accept donations, but also means they can start spending.
Staff, signage, a website, an office, launching a brand — a million dollars goes fast, Rossi said.
Ford is the first, and the worse, in 2014 election: Editorial.
There’s also a practical benefit to watching from the sidelines as long as possible.
“The sooner you get in, the sooner you have to answer questions.
And for some who don’t have to worry as much about name recognition, you don’t want to have to answer those questions until the very last moment, tactically,” he said.
“You could be put on the defensive earlier than you want to be,” he said.
Rossi, who is now the president of Prostate Cancer Canada, had been the CEO of Ontario’s Heart & Stroke Foundation before he quit to run for mayor.
Though it was not his first dalliance with local politics.
In 2003, Rossi ran John Tory’s near-miss campaign against David Miller.
Now that he was the candidate, Rossi was hoping to inherit Tory’s centre-right base.
For an unknown, he got off to a reasonable start.
A January 2010 Angus Reid-Toronto Star poll put Rossi’s support at 15 per cent, with Smitherman way out in front.
Then everything fell apart for him — and everyone else in the race — at the end of March, after Ford declared.
“It was surreal.
From the moment he came in, I mean, he just sucked up all of the oxygen.
And I can’t think of anything (I would have done differently) that would have made a significant difference,” Rossi said.
Ford had a rock-hard brand on taxes, waste and entitlements.
It was a message that resonated with the mood of the electorate.
At the time, it made sense for Ford to wait a few months before getting in, the same way it makes sense for Tory — who now has his radio show on Newstalk 1010 — and Chow, one of the most high-profile politicians in the country.
But this time around, Rossi says he wasn’t surprised to hear the mayor filed his papers early.
“I think he wants to send a clear message to everyone — in particularly those on the centre right — that he will be there.
And that makes the math on the centre right very difficult, because he does have a hard core of support,” Rossi said.
For the 2014 campaign, Soknacki will be the Rossi in the race.
Soknacki is a businessman, a former columnist with Metroland, and during his time on council served as the city’s budget chief.
As a right-leaning candidate with business bona fides, Soknacki has the resume, just not the name recognition.
“We’re facing somewhat of an uphill battle when it comes to name recognition and don’t really have the luxury of a daily radio talk show or an upcoming book tour to spread our message or get David’s name out there,” said his spokesperson, Supriya Dwivedi, taking a not-so-subtle jab at Tory and at Chow, who will soon release a well-timed memoir.
Dwivedi also said Soknacki “has been quite clear from the onset that he intended to register early, and doesn’t really believe in playing the ‘will he or won't he’ game with registration.”
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

									
										Rob Ford is ecstatic after doctors told his tumour has shrunk, his brother Doug says.
“It’s the first positive news we’ve received.”comments
									
								

									
										Strategist and political mastermind who helped keep John Tory out of the 2010 election was a key player in helping Tory getting elected mayor in 2014.comments
									
								
Analysis: 20 lessons from the Rob Ford era.

									
										The past four years may have taught us as much about ourselves as about the former mayor.
									
								

									
										Doug Ford's vote was highest in Toronto lowest-income wards where voter turn-out is the lowest.
The opposite is true of John Tory's support.
									
								

									
										Analyst Eric Grenier has looked at the numbers and concluded the polls did a decent job gauging the mood of Toronto voters.comments
									
								

									
										John Tory has named two teams that will help him transition into the mayor's chair on Dec.
2.comments
									
								
John Tory: 'I'm looking forward to the challenge'.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Olivia Chow is the first left-leaning challenger to incumbent Rob Ford.
			
Olivia Chow will return to the hardscrabble Toronto neighbourhood where she grew up to launch her campaign Thursday to become mayor of Canada’s largest city.
Just hours after resigning her NDP seat in the House of Commons, Chow officially joined the race Wednesday afternoon.
A member of her campaign team registered Chow’s candidacy at city hall, a day earlier than expected.
“Why not, no reason,” said Bill Cronau, her campaign’s chief financial officer.
Another volunteer, Bob Gallagher, also signed the paperwork, as did city Councillor Mike Layton, son of Chow’s late husband, NDP leader Jack Layton.
More on the election:.
The left-leaning politician joins an already crowded field of right-wing contenders preaching fiscal restraint.
Chow is expected to promise bold, progressive changes for the city.
Her challengers, including Mayor Rob Ford, wasted no time painting her as a spendthrift politician while evoking the past.
Ford told CP24 he welcomed Chow’s entry in the race and said she makes former mayor David Miller “look like a conservative.”
Councillor Karen Stintz’s mayoralty campaign issued a statement saying the city can’t afford “to go back to the ways of an NDP Mayor.”
“Toronto needs someone reasonable and accountable in the mayor’s chair, not someone who is going to perpetuate old-style ‘tax and spend’ attitudes,” the email said.
Businessman David Soknacki steered clear of any attack Wednesday as he stumped for the mayor’s job in the snow.
He and Chow were both city councillors during the reigns of both Mel Lastman and David Miller.
“Welcome to the race, look forward to debate, look forward to the seven months ahead,” Soknacki said.
Voters go to the polls Oct.
27.
Chow has led in most polls of potential contenders over the past year; the most recent, a late February survey by Forum Research, put her in a tie with Ford and gave her a slight lead over Tory.
Chow’s campaign will be managed by veteran John Laschinger, who has run campaigns for Miller and top provincial and federal Conservatives.
Warren Kinsella, the veteran Liberal strategist, is also involved.
Chow has been endorsed by George Smitherman — the Liberal who was defeated by Ford in 2010 — and filmmaker Deepa Mehta, among others.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
But after 40 years of reporting on, analyzing, strategizing within and dissecting municipal, provincial and federal elections, I see a perfect storm brewing — a unique set of four factors that points toward the re-election of our chief reprobate.
Factor one is the entrenchment in western culture of politics as a spectator sport.
It’s been an American thing for decades — since actor Ronald Reagan became governor of California in 1967, followed generations later by pro wrestler Jesse Ventura in Minnesota in 1999 and action movie star Arnold Schwarzenegger in California in 2003, cartoon-character candidates with off-the-scale name recognition have been tough to beat in single-candidate elections like a mayoralty race.
A name sufficiently burned into the public mind can turn a stuffy election into a really fun game, a phenomenon best captured by an Arnie voter who famously told CBC: “Why am I voting for him? I just want to see what happens.”
This year, Hollywood and Jimmy Kimmel have helped Ford become a larger-than-life celebrity, adding to his already remarkable levels of awareness and familiarity, attributes that consistently drive ballot choices.
It’s having an effect.
The latest Forum Research polls show Ford with a late-summer baseline of some 32 per cent of the decided vote, after everything he’s put us through.
To a significant portion of our electorate, celebrity and notoriety blend into a single positive criterion for mayoral electability.
Factor two: today’s news coverage is driven by Google hits, not carefully considered editorial choices or, heaven forbid, balance and fairness.
In February, serious-minded (and then fifth-place) candidate David Soknacki held a news conference on a condo-lined street a block from city hall to lay out his reforms to the Land Transfer Tax.
In a pre-emptive strike, Ford’s campaign-manager brother Doug told the city hall press gallery the mayor would be visited at the same hour by magician David Blaine to do card tricks.
Three reporters (including one from the Star, to its credit) attended Soknacki’s event; the rest swarmed the mayor’s office where Blaine was a no-show.
“Yeah, that was something of a low point for the press gallery,” a Star reporter told me, but his criticism is misplaced.
Today’s media owners demand content that generates search engine hits, substantive public discourse be damned.
In this climate, Ford has monopolized the headlines, set the agenda and been the story of the 2014 election campaign, even when locked in rehab.
The metrics that drive today’s news media are not about to change, much to the incumbent’s benefit and the exasperation of other candidates trying to be serious, build profile, gain traction and genuinely improve the city.
This context fosters factor three, an election campaign that stands to become a referendum on Rob Ford’s character and suitability for office.
In a normal world, the next two months would be the time to debate the complex issues that will determine Toronto’s future, weigh policy approaches and assess options, and pick the leader most capable of implementing his or her platform of priorities and plans.
But Toronto’s new normal is a cartoon campaign covered by media fearful of missing a Ford-centric beat, focused intently on what he’ll do next.
Candidates who persist in treating this as a battleground of ideas face obscurity.
But the tidal wave in this fall’s perfect storm is factor four — the potential appeal of a “reformed” Rob Ford.
Doug Ford is a cunning strategist; he can read these tea leaves, too.
His candidate brother can deliver his lines and execute, not suavely, but with great impact and effectiveness.
If the Fords put the mayor forward as a contrite, changed person who has learned a lesson from everything he’s been through, the conditions are in place for him to cobble together enough votes to prevail over John Tory and Olivia Chow on Oct.
27.
This approach would consolidate and galvanize Ford’s core vote, while reaching out to a significant number of voters who have turned away from the mayor but who would look at a “reformed” Ford and feel that if they were in his shoes, they too would want a second chance.
It’s a powerful message, one that could even appeal on the left to progressives who believe in the principle of rehabilitation, and on the right to conservatives who, disgusted as they may be by Ford’s shenanigans, believe deeply in personal redemption.
This approach would be a nightmare for the other candidates.
Everything in the tool box they could throw at Ford, from character-based attacks to careful accounting of his misstatements and failures, would become counterproductive and strengthen Ford’s position that he’s been made better by his experience.
I know strategists in the camps of each of Ford’s challengers.
They’re not sleeping well these nights.
The monster under their beds is a Ford campaign that weaves together the threads of this perfect storm, produces and delivers a persuasive narrative, and does the unthinkable: wins re-election for the mayor in resounding fashion.
The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Brampton's new Mayor, Linda Jeffrey is seen at her victory party at the Embassy Grand convention centre on The Gore Road.
			
Linda Jeffrey has handed Susan Fennell, the scandal-plagued mayor of Brampton, an embarrassing defeat.
“Certainly, people were very angry,” Jeffrey said of Fennell, moments after arriving at her victory party and describing what she was hearing at the door.
Asked what her first order of business will be, she said: “To lower the mayor’s salary … bringing in some accountability.”
As an MPP she rose to the ranks of cabinet in the Liberal government of premier Dalton McGuinty.
She served as minister of labour, natural resources and municipal affairs and housing.
She said her decision to resign as an MPP and run for the mayor’s job came after she was pressured to help clean Brampton up; she admitted recently that she is not fond of municipal politics.
Jeffrey has promised to cut the mayor’s pay by about $50,000 and will push for a lobbyist registry.
She also focused on equity and inclusion — about 67 per cent of Brampton residents belong to visible minority groups.
She’s pledged to bring a university to the city and wants to see all-day, two-way GO service to help ease crippling traffic congestion.
Sanderson, who captured 22 per cent of the vote, had been on Brampton council since 2006, after running his family’s waste management business.
The Sanderson name is well known throughout the city because of his family’s community service — Sanderson was named Brampton’s citizen of the year in 2005.
He was one of Fennell’s main opponents on council this term, and brought forward the motion for the forensic audit of council spending.
His platform focuses on incentivizing small, medium and big businesses to set up in Brampton.
The city has been consumed by a spending scandal that rocked the mayor’s office.
City documents showed that Fennell and her staff expensed $186,000 over three years on items such as $1,300 for Fennell’s Mandarin lessons, $2,100 for personalized barbecue aprons and $1,500 for tickets to the city’s Rose Orchestra.
Disclosures of official travel spending showed the mayor and her staff spent $185,000 over five years, including expenses of more than $1,800 each for flights to places such as Ottawa, Saskatoon and Bagotville, Que.
Hotel stays, some for more than $700 a night, were also revealed in documents.
Fennell and her staff also rang up $663,000 on city-issued credit cards over seven years, including numerous personal charges for items such as jewelry and airfare.
Some of the expenses have been paid back.
An outside auditor was called in to examine the spending and made recommendations as to how much should be paid back by council members.
On Friday, an appeal arbitrator dramatically reduced the amount Fennell must pay back and lowered the payback amounts for most councillors.
The scandal took a political toll on Fennell as her popularity in the polls plummeted.
She said she was grateful to have been mayor and had “no regrets,” despite the “alleged spending scandal” that she described as a “terrible cloud.”
“I have come here to wish Linda success,” Fennell said.
“Over four terms we brought this city to be debt-free.
We have rec centres being added.
Brampton is on a firm financial footing.
We are so diverse.
I love the people and I love the job.
Tonight the people have spoken and they have chosen a new mayor.”
While council became consumed with the mayor’s office in the past term, staff struggled with some key issues in a city that has been growing quickly.
A proposal call by the province offered the city — the largest in Canada without its own university — a chance to build its own post-secondary institution.
But the city learned this summer that the application on which it had partnered with Centennial College did not comply with requirements.
Council was slow in confirming what it wants to do about the proposed light-rail line that Metrolinx proposes to run north from Port Credit into Brampton’s historic centre.
The project’s future in Brampton remains undecided.
A capital project review also found — after reporting requirements were inexplicably dropped — that the city had lost track of progress on tens of millions of dollars’ worth of approved and funded projects.
Some of the money has since been accounted for.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				John Tory did well in the poll conducted by Forum Research on the day he formally registered his candidacy for mayor of Toronto.
			
Olivia Chow, John Tory and Rob Ford are locked in a tight early race for Toronto’s mayoralty, though Tory and Chow have much more room than Ford to improve, according to the first opinion poll since Tory announced his candidacy.
Monday’s Forum Research poll of 1,310 residents, conducted on the day Tory and Karen Stintz registered to run, gave Tory 39 per cent support, Ford 33 per cent, Stintz 15 per cent, and David Soknacki 5 per cent in a race among the major declared candidates.
Chow, the NDP MP, has not formally started campaigning; she is almost certain to register by the end of March.
In a hypothetical race with Chow included, she and Ford tied at 31 per cent; Tory, the former Progressive Conservative leader, had 27 per cent; Stintz, a city councillor, had 6 per cent; Soknacki, a former councillor, had 2 per cent.
Those figures suggest Ford will struggle to stay afloat if voters who are unhappy with him eventually coalesce around a single top challenger.
A competitive slugfest between two or more challengers, however, could give the polarizing incumbent a chance to eke out a victory with less than 40 per cent of the vote.
Tory’s Monday numbers were higher than they were in Forum’s other polls this winter.
He had the highest approval rating, at 55 per cent.
Ford’s approval was stable at 44 per cent.
Chow’s was 51 per cent, Stintz’s 38 per cent, Soknacki’s 26 per cent.
Tory’s support was spread relatively evenly throughout the city.
Chow was strongest in the old municipalities of Toronto and East York, with 39 per cent; Ford was weakest in those areas, with only 19 per cent, but stronger than both Chow and Tory in the suburbs.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  That’s because, despite all his bluster about sweeping to victory, Rob Ford won’t be re-elected as mayor when voters go to the polls in October.


  Indeed, Ford stands a real chance of finishing a poor third in the race and could end up playing more of a role as a spoiler than being a viable contender for the mayor’s office.


  As much as Ford Nation will cry unfair, defeat for Ford is the most likely outcome of this race that pits the crack-smoking, ill-mannered mayor against top contenders Olivia Chow and John Tory.


  Clearly, many Toronto residents are deeply worried that the mayor could win this election.
Those concerns seem to be even more exaggerated among those “elites,” “lefties” and “downtowners” Ford uses as verbal punching bags in his campaign speeches.


  They are based on early polls that suggest Ford has a voter approval rating forever stuck between 40 and 45 per cent, regardless of what shame he brings on himself and the city, on television images of 1,500 wildly cheering Ford enthusiasts at his
  
    campaign kick-off
  
  event, of scenes of people clamouring for Ford bobbleheads and lining up to take “selfies” photos with the mayor wherever he shows up.


  Added to that is the international “celebrity” status that Ford has garnered after appearing on U.S
late-night shows.


  Taken together, they might suggest Ford could be re-elected, coming up the middle as Chow and Tory — and Karen Stintz and David Soknacki to a lesser extent — split the anti-Ford vote.


  Ford has no growth potential in the polls; he lacks support from any major community, political, religious or academic leader; every newspaper, including the Toronto Sun, which endorsed him in 2010, opposes his candidacy; and his lone main campaign message of controlling city hall spending can be easily usurped by other candidates.


  To win, Ford needs to capture 37-42 per cent of the votes in the Oct.
27 election.
Currently, only 23-27 per cent of Toronto voters say they would actually vote for him in the election.
To be re-elected, Ford must improve that number by about 50 per cent.


  But where does that extra support come from? An
  
    Ipsos Reid poll
  
  in December conducted on behalf of CTV News indicated 61 per cent of voters would never consider voting for Ford.
Also, Ford is the second choice of few voters polled compared with Chow and Tory.


  In the 2010 election, Ford got 47 per cent of the votes.
Many of them held their noses when they cast their ballots for Ford, disliking his personal failings but loving his message of “Stop the Gravy Train.”


  To date, Ford has done nothing to try to win them back.
Rather, he is frantically trying to solidify his core base, playing up his “celebrity” and bashing the “elites” he claims are out to get him.


  Also, the bulk of Ford’s supporters are young, lower income, less educated, male and from outer parts of suburbs such as Scarborough and North York.
All these groups are the least likely to vote in an election, which greatly hurts Ford’s campaign efforts.


  It’s because most Toronto residents believe city hall is failing to take vigilant care of their tax dollars.
To that end, Ford is seen as the guy who really cares about this issue.


  With Ford, voters like the message but hate the behaviour.
With Chow, voters like the behaviour but are wary about her message on spending.
With Tory, they like the behaviour but aren’t sure of the message.


  No doubt, Ford will remain a big factor in the race because of his message.
At the same time, election campaigns really do matter, as Tory knows from his failed 2003 mayoral bid.


  Ultimately, though, barring any unforeseen implosion by
  
    both
  
  Chow and Tory, Ford’s days as mayor will soon be over — and the city can relax again.

The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
A secret request to alter her pay and a string of spending scandals appear to have battered the reputation of Brampton Mayor Susan Fennell, according to a new poll of the city's voters.
Despite Fennell’s recent insistence in council that “There is no scandal in Brampton” — a phrase she repeated three times — it appears nearly three-quarters (74 per cent) of those polled disagreed.
Some 72 per cent disapprove of the job Fennell is doing.
But the biggest problem facing the beleaguered mayor of Canada’s ninth largest city, according to the weekend poll by Forum Research, is her chances in the Oct.
27 election.
In a three-way race with fellow mayoral candidates Linda Jeffrey, a long-time Brampton MPP, and Councillor John Sanderson, Fennell is lagging way behind.
She would draw 18 per cent of the vote, compared with 39 per cent for Jeffrey and 26 per cent for Sanderson.
Recent revelations that Fennell and her staff charged $663,000 on their city-issued credit cards since 2007 for things such as LCBO purchases, luxury hotel stays, high-end restaurants, jewelry and first-class airfare (Fennell said some of the expenses were later reimbursed) has angered many voters.
Eighty per cent of respondents said they do not approve of city-issued credit cards being used for travel and entertainment expenses, and six in 10 blame Fennell alone for the recent spending scandals in Brampton.
A forensic audit is underway by Deloitte Canada, investigating spending by Fennell and the rest of council.
Sanderson’s call for an audit followed a series of media reports about spending by Fennell’s office starting last fall, based on documents obtained under freedom of information law.
Only 12 per cent of those surveyed said it’s acceptable to use city credit cards to cover travel and entertainment costs.
But Fennell refused to apologize for any of the spending racked up on plastic when councillors publicly demanded explanations two weeks ago.
Fennell said the luxury hotels at which she stayed on several occasions were not chosen by her; that a flight to Ottawa cost $1,850 because it was booked on a flight pass that would otherwise have expired (she flew to other Canadian cities at the same price); and that her $2 airport luggage rack charges were for other travellers in her group.
It was recently revealed that she secretly asked to not be paid for the last two months of 2013, which critics argued was an attempt to lose her politically costly 2012 status as Canada’s highest-paid mayor.
It's unclear if she has since received the salary payments that were stopped by the city treasurer on Fennell's confidential instruction.
Councillors are now awaiting the results of the ongoing forensic audit, expected to be finished by July.
