 Keep up with the news by installing RT’s extension for 
Never miss a story with this clean and simple app that delivers the latest headlines to you.
Members of the "Donbass" self-defence battalion attend a ceremony to swear the oath to be officially included into the reserve battalion of the National Guard of Ukraine near Kiev June 23, 2014
(Reuters/Valentyn Ogirenko)

  “We heard repeated confirmations from the [US]
  administration, that it only supplies non-lethal aid to Ukraine.
  If there is a change of this policy, then we are talking about a
  serious destabilizing factor which could seriously affect the
  balance of power in the region,” Russian Foreign Ministry
  spokesman Aleksandr
  Lukashevich cautioned.


  His remarks follow US deputy National Security Advisor Tony
  Blinken Wednesday’s statement at a hearing before the Senate
  Committee for Foreign Affairs, in which he said that Biden may
  offer the provision of “lethal defensive weapons” as he
  visits Ukraine
Lethal assistance “remains on the table
It's
  something that we’re looking at,” Blinken said.


  “We paid attention not only to such statements, but also to
  the trip of representatives of Ukrainian volunteer battalions to
  Washington, who tried to muster support of the US
  administration,” Lukashevich said.


  “This is a very serious signal for several reasons
First of
  all, this is a direct violation of agreements, including the ones
  achieved in partnership with the United States
I mean the Geneva
  Declaration from 17 April,” said the Russian Foreign
  Ministry spokesman.


  Ukrainian President
  Petro Poroshenko requested lethal aid from the US during a visit
  to Washington in September.


  The American Vice President who has arrived in Kiev late Thursday
  has not yet made any official announcement, but Reuters’ sources
  point to the possibility that US might increase a
  “non-lethal” aid package to Kiev instead of opting to
  supply arms.


  Under the non-lethal aid package, the US could deliver to Ukraine
  first Humvee vehicles and radars but as officials pointed out
  such deliveries would unlikely alter the conflict
Previous
  non-lethal aid to Ukraine announced in September included
  military equipment such as counter-mortar detection units, body
  armor, binoculars and other gear worth $53 million.


  At the same time the US diplomatic branch announced that it will
  continue to send advisers to Kiev and has allocated funds to
  Ukraine to battle what both the US and Ukraine see as a threat
  from Russia.


  “The United States, as
  you’re no doubt aware, is providing about $116 million in
  security assistance to help Ukraine in this
  effort,”State
  Department spokesman Jeff Rathke said Thursday
“This assistance also includes
  advising and training, and the United States will continue to
  send advisory teams to Kiev to help improve Ukraine’s combat
  medical care and to identify areas for additional security
  assistance.”


  Rathke also said that lethal assistance to Ukraine is not yet
  “off the table.”


  “Our position on lethal aid hasn’t changed
Nothing is off
  the table, and we continue to believe there’s no military
  solution
But we, in light of Russia’s actions, as the nominee
  mentioned yesterday in his testimony, this is – as he indicated,
  this is something that we should be looking at,” Rathke
  said.


  For now all will be decided Friday when Biden is expected to hold
  talks with Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk and
  President Petro Poroshenko
Following the talks, Biden and
  Poroshenko will make a joint press statement.

 Keep up with the news by installing RT’s extension for 
Never miss a story with this clean and simple app that delivers the latest headlines to you.
Burnt military machinery in Uglegorsk
Background: a DPR bus column heading to Debaltsevo for evacuation of local residents from the combat zone
(RIA Novosti)
The German intelligence service estimates the real losses in the Ukrainian civil war at 50,000 dead (civilians and servicemen), which is nearly 10 times higher than reported by the Kiev authorities, German media report.

  The information comes from a source in German intelligence, who
  spoke to the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung (FAZ)
  newspaper.


  “Germany’s special services estimate the probable number of
  deceased Ukrainian servicemen and civilians at up to 50,000
  people
This figure is about 10 times higher than official data.
  Official figures are clearly too low and not credible,” the
  newspaper reported on Sunday, citing its source.


  Just one day before the report was published, the Ukrainian
  president gave completely different numbers to the international
  community.


  “The death toll for the Ukrainian soldiers defending land
  from the aggressor is now 1,432
Thousands of people, 5,638, have
  been killed since April [2014] and every single day the number of
  victims among the civilians is rising,” Petro Poroshenko said in his address
  to the 51st Munich Security Conference on Saturday.


  The Ukrainian army is reported to be suffering its heaviest
  losses since the beginning of the conflict last spring
According
  to the Donetsk militia representative, Eduard Basurin, the
  Ukrainian army has lost 1,569 servicemen in just three weeks
  since restarting the offensive.


  The situation on the battlefield is dire for the Ukrainian
  forces
Some 8,000 Ukrainian troops are believed to be surrounded
  near the village of Debaltsevo in Donbass
Militia units cut off
  the only road linking this pocket of land to Kiev-controlled
  territory.


  Taking into account
  these heavy losses, Ukraine is set to call up as many military
  age Ukrainians as possible
The national military draft for 2015
  is expected to see 100,000 people joining the army in three
  stages throughout the year.

 Keep up with the news by installing RT’s extension for 
Never miss a story with this clean and simple app that delivers the latest headlines to you.
Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko poses with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso (L) and European Council President Herman Van Rompuy (R) at the EU Council in Brussels June 27, 2014 (Reuters / Stringer)
Ukraine has signed the European Trade Association Agreement, the document that sent the country into a political frenzy when not signed eight months ago to this day
RT gives you the basics on how this will affect the economy of both from here on out.

  The economic part of the pact signed between Ukraine and the EU will slash 98
  percent of trade duties on the EU’s 28 member’s goods and 99
  percent on Ukrainian products
The EU says it'll give Ukrainian
  markets greater access to Europe which is expected to give the
  country an economic boost, including more trade and job creation.


  Details on the transition period are such that Ukraine has 7-10
  years to change product names already in use in the EU
Poultry
  from Ukraine will be regulated, as not to interfere with
  agriculture subsidies in the EU
Ukraine’s domestic auto industry
  will be protected by a 15 - year buffer period to catch up to the
  European competition.


  Joining the European Free Trade Agreement means Ukraine will gain
  in Europe, but lose in Russia, a risky move by newly - elected
  President Petro Poroshenko.


  Russia has repeatedly said Ukraine cannot have its cake and eat
  it too
Its choice to join up with the EU instead of the Russian
  - led Customs Union will have economic consequences
No more
  free-trade, possible new tariffs, and definitely no more
  discounted gas.


  Last year, Ukraine exported goods worth $16 billion to Russia,
  nearly 25 percent of all total exports
Ukraine exported $17
  billion to Europe the same year.


  Russia has said it may be forced to block Ukrainian imports due
  to the fact they cannot vouch for their quality under EU law.


  EU has one answer and Russia has another
The EU thinks in the
  long-run closer ties with Europe will bring Ukraine economic
  prosperity
Moscow predicts a short-term windfall of $30-40
  billion in the next year
The EU says it will make up for any
  counter actions by Russia.


  Russia’s Committee for Civil Initiatives, a think tank headed by
  former finance minister Aleksey Kudrin, estimates Ukraine’s
  decision to sign the economic part of the agreement will cost the
  country $33 billion per year, or 19 percent of GDP.


  The Ukrainian currency, the hryvnia, has weakened to 11.89
  against the US dollar, losing nearly 45 percent since January
  2014, when it was pegged at 8.235 to the dollar.


  The costs of Ukraine's participation in the Eastern Partnership
  may turn out to be too high not only for Ukraine but also for the
  EU
That’s because the budget of the European Union has been
  calculated for 7 years ahead and does not envisage any extra
  expenditures, while Ukraine’s economy needs billions to revive
  its economy, as ITAR-TASS cites Sergei Kulik, Contemporary
  Development Institute Director for International Research.


  The man was among the first to make a research on the
  consequences of the EU - Ukraine association for the EU budget.


  Currently Ukraine needs the estimated $85 billion to finance the
  current balance of payments deficit to ensure the economy's
  stable development in 2015-2018.


  However, development needs require financing by an order of
  magnitude larger than that, Kulik said
Ukraine needs "$190
  billion until 2018 to recapitalize the national economy and $300
  billion to overcome structural disproportions in the economy
  accumulated in the past 20 years," the expert said.


  The financing needs of Ukraine can be compared with the European
  Union's massive cash injections to overcome the sovereign debt
  crisis in South Europe.


  "…the figures show that the inclusion of Ukraine into the
  Eastern Partnership program is an unbearable burden for the
  EU," Kulik concluded.


  Though Poroshenko was elected on a primarily pro-EU platform, not
  everyone in Ukraine wants closer company with the West.


  Violence in Eastern Ukraine continues along with the backdrop of
  the trade deal, as people there still consider the government in
  Kiev illegitimate.


  If Ukraine is the ‘bread basket of Europe’, Eastern Ukraine is
  the center of industry and infrastructure
Donetsk and Lugansk
  are both southeastern regions where anti-government groups
  continue to fight
Together, these regions account for 25 percent
  of the country’s exports.


  Steel, ships, nuclear power, metals, airplanes, autos, machines,
  refineries, and appliances are all manufactured in the
  historically Russian-speaking southeast
To export these goods to
  Europe, the Kiev government will need to make peace.


  Agriculture and service industry dominate business in the Western
  regions.

 Keep up with the news by installing RT’s extension for 
Never miss a story with this clean and simple app that delivers the latest headlines to you.
The fragile ceasefire between Kiev and militias in eastern Ukraine holds despite continuing reports of shelling and fighting
According to UN, the bloody conflict has so far claimed more than 3,000 lives and left hundreds of thousands of people displaced.

	The Russian cabinet of ministers will consider Lugansk and Donetsk regions’ request for urgent humanitarian assistance, its press service says
The Russian government has received numerous appeals warning the situation is close to humanitarian catastrophe
The population badly needs food, drinking water, medicines and essential tools, there are no provisions for warming houses, the press service added.


	Ukrainian investigators searched offices of three companies broadcasting Russian TV-channels on Friday, the country’s Ministry of Internal Affairs said in a statement
The bank accounts of the companies have been arrested, and their digital media have been collected
The investigation is “certain” that “the firms have used the capital received from the sale of advertising time to finance activities of terroristic groups operating on the Ukrainian territory.”


	The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission said it can’t confirm the alleged use of cluster bombs in eastern Ukraine, reported earlier by Human Rights Watch.


	Refugees from eastern Ukraine’s regions of Donetsk and Lugansk are protesting at the country’s government in Kiev, reports the local press
They are demanding authorities give them a place to live, food and clothes
The demonstrators made an installation – a sofa, on which there are words, saying “It is as empty as your promises.”


	At least seven people died and 36 were injured in the Donetsk Region during shelling, the Donetsk People’s Republic told RIA Novosti.
	
	“The shelling is very intense, five self-defense forces have been killed, 30 injured,” the deputy head of the self-defense forces, Eduard Basurin, said
“As for civilians, a couple was killed … near Donetsk and six civilians injured,” he added.
	
	According to the Ukraine Council of National Security and Defense, 13 troops have been injured in the last 24 hours in the Donetsk Region.


	Russia and Ukraine have agreed to a preliminary gas price for the winter months, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko told Ukrainian TV channels.


	"[We] reached an agreement," Poroshenko said
"Until March 31 we will fix the price at $385.” The news comes after a meeting between Poroshenko and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Milan on Friday.


	Poroshenko added that Ukraine might need help from international players to pay Russia
"We must solve the question of how we cover the deficit of funds for Naftogaz for gas purchases," Poroshenko said
"We have several different options [including] the International Monetary Fund (IMF)."


	The IMF is scheduled to visit Ukraine in mid-November to discuss possible amendments to the Ukrainian loan program, according to Poroshenko.


	A plume of black smoke was seen rising over the Donetsk skyline, Saturday as fighting reportedly resumed in the vicinity of the city's international airport
The facility, located six miles (10 kilometres) from the city centre, is contested by pro-Kiev forces and militants of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic (DPR/DNR).


	The law on the special status of the Donbass region in eastern Ukraine - which includes Donetsk and Lugansk – has come into force
It was published in the country’s parliamentary newspaper, Holos Ukrayiny
On September 16, the Ukrainian parliament approved laws on special status for the Donetsk and Lugansk Regions, as well as amnesty for the rebels in the hostilities
The law guarantees the right to use and study Russian, or any other language, in Ukraine
It also states that local elections are to take place in the regions on December 7.


	Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that the current low oil prices are “no tragedy” for the Russian budget, stressing that they may soon see an upward correction.


	Speaking at a press briefing following talks with Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko in Milan on Friday, Putin said the current price of US$80 per barrel is not profitable for producers and should rise in the near future.


	The Russian state budget is drafted based on the price of $96 per barrel, he added.


	Putin also reassured that that there will be no sharp rise in Russia’s budget deficit
He did, however, state that some corrections to the budget may be made, but that welfare spending won't be affected.


	“Maybe we’ll have to correct something in the budget
Maybe cut down some items but it surely won’t be connected with cutting social expenditures,” he said
According to the president, Russia is able to make those corrections without any significant losses taking place.


                        UN: Scared of the way military operations conducted in E
Ukraine
                         
                    

                        ‘We just want the war to end’: Refugees flee E
Ukraine turmoil
                         
                    

                        Kiev deployed powerful anti-air systems to E
Ukraine ahead of the Malaysian plane crash
                         
                    
 Keep up with the news by installing RT’s extension for 
Never miss a story with this clean and simple app that delivers the latest headlines to you.

  Canada said it received the request from the Ukrainian
  government
“Ukraine has asked for this and once again we are
  delivering," Defence Minister Rob Nicholson Nicholson said
  at the Canadian Forces Base in Trenton.


  The flight marks the first in a series, and all of the items will
  be delivered by the CC-130J Hercules plane
Canadian military
  personnel accompanied the equipment to Ukraine.


  The technology provided will “allow Ukrainian security and
  border authorities to better detect and track the movement of
  illicit goods and people,” according to Harper.


  The news comes after Russia banned the imports of fruit,
  vegetables, meat, fish, and dairy products from the 28 countries
  of the EU, the US, Canada, Norway, and Australia for one year.


  Russia’s ban is set to cost Canadian pork farmers more than $500
  million
But the Canadian government is continuing its current
  stance on the matter
“We will not be intimidated by these
  kinds of tactics,” Canadian Industry Minister James Moore
  said.


  Rasmussen also mentioned that Russia has amassed 20,000 troops
  near the border and could be planning a ground invasion of its
  neighbor, mentioning that Russia "should not use
  peace-keeping as an excuse for war-making."


  "In Russia’s Ministry of Defense such statements only raise
  sympathy for the speakers of the Pentagon, the US State
  Department and NATO
It seems the people are serious, but they
  have to constantly improvise during their speeches to somehow add
  seriousness to their statements," Ministry of Defense
  spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said.

 Keep up with the news by installing RT’s extension for 
Never miss a story with this clean and simple app that delivers the latest headlines to you.
The Ukrainian military draft for 2015 has come into effect
It’s expected to see 100,000 people joining the army in three stages throughout the year
The self-proclaimed Donetsk republic says the process is undermining peace agreements.

  The first stage of the draft, starting on Tuesday, will last
  ninety days and will seek 50,000 recruits
Two more stages will
  follow in April and June.


  The main aim of the mobilization is said to be replacement for
  those on the front line in eastern Ukraine, who were recruited
  last year.


  Those eligible for draft are primarily reserve servicemen aged
  from 25 to 60
They are supposed to get a month of training
  before they actually go to the battlegrounds in eastern Ukraine.
  Women – mostly nurses and psychologists - are also subject to
  mobilization, according to the law signed by President Poroshenko
  on Monday.


  Joint Staff spokesman Vladimir Talalay has warned those dodging
  the draft could face up to five years behind bars.


  The threat hasn’t prevented Ukrainians from venting their anger
  online at the draft campaign
Many argue mobilization is only
  possible after martial law has been imposed in the country
The
  military campaign in Ukraine’s east is officially dubbed an
  anti-terrorist operation, which people believe is something
  security forces are supposed to deal with.


  Last year saw three waves of mobilization in Ukraine
Each was
  accompanied by massive protests from the draftees’ relatives.


  “I imagine how many mothers and wives are now thinking of
  where to hide their sons and husbands,” a female Facebook
  user wrote about the current draft
“Mobilization or no
  mobilization – taking men older than 50 is not funny.”


  The self-proclaimed republic of Donetsk has already slammed the
  new Ukrainian draft as inconsistent with the peace agreements
  signed in Minsk in September.


  Donetsk authorities have confirmed that two people died as a
  result of shelling on Monday, with the bombardment continuing
  throughout the night.


  A hospital in the city was severely damaged when at least two
  shells struck it.


  In a video by RT’s Ruptly news agency, loud artillery fire can be
  heard on the city streets as men in camouflage call on passers-by
  to get down
Another video shows a dead, old man lying on the
  ground.


  On Tuesday, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)
  issued a similar call, saying the intensified fighting in and
  around Donetsk was hampering the ICRC mission there.


  “We once again call on all parties to refrain from harming
  civilians and to comply with international humanitarian
  law,” said Michel Masson, head of the ICRC delegation in
  Ukraine
“In particular, we remind them that indiscriminate
  attacks are prohibited.”


  The Ukrainian Security Council accused Russia on Monday of
  sending troops across the Ukrainian border
The security
  officials said two battalions had crossed the frontier, and
  promised to provide proof.


  Moscow has dismissed the accusations as absurd.


  “Yesterday’s claims by Kiev of alleged Russian troops
  movement over the Russia-Ukraine border don’t stand any
  criticism
That’s absolute nonsense,” said Igor Konashenkov,
  spokesman for the Russian Ministry of Defense.


  He described the claims as “hallucinations of ‘Russian
  invasion’ on the part of the main protagonists in the military
  solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine.”


  Russia is already doing everything possible to help stop the war
  in eastern Ukraine, the spokesman for the Russian President,
  Dmitry Peskov said, stressing that Russia cannot solve this
  internal conflict.


  Peskov said in an interview to the AiF daily that the war there
  can only be ended as a result of dialogue within Ukraine, adding
  that it is Kiev who needs to start it
“Until Kiev starts
  talks with its regions, people will continue dying there.”


  While urging the Russian president to solve a crisis in a
  neighboring state, the West is trying to portray Putin as being
  part of the conflict
They are trying to isolate him in the
  international politics, weaken Russia economically and achieve
  regime change, he said.


  Moscow believes the escalation of violence might make the
  so-called “Normandy format” peace talks problematic
The
  peace talks aim to bring the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, France
  and Germany together at the negotiating table.


  “A meeting like that could only take place in case its
  effective result is ensured,” the Russian president’s
  spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, RIA Novosti reported.
  “Currently that seems to be less likely than before the
  renewal of military operations by Ukraine.”

 Keep up with the news by installing RT’s extension for 
Never miss a story with this clean and simple app that delivers the latest headlines to you.
OSCE observers take pictures at the site where pro-Russian say is a mass grave with five bodies, in the town of Nizhnaya Krinka, eastern Ukraine, September 23, 2014
(Reuters / Marko Djurica)
Berlin is mulling sending troops to monitor the shaky ceasefire between Kiev forces and local militia in eastern Ukraine, a German government source told Reuters.

  The source told the agency that a German troop deployment would
  depend on the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
  (OSCE), which could move to send in troops to monitor the
  ceasefire it helped broker on September 5 in Minsk, Belarus.


  If such a political decision were made, the number of troops sent
  by Germany would depend on the security situation in Ukraine and
  conditions set by the OSCE, the source said.


  German newspaper Bild, however, said that 200 soldiers were
  planned for the mission
Around 150 would help monitor the crisis
  area with drones, and an additional 50 would provide security.


  Last month, France and Germany offered to send drones to help
  bolster OSCE monitoring of the ceasefire in Ukraine’s troubled
  east.


  The daily said the mission was in reaction to a Franco-German
  fact-finding mission in mid-September, which determined that the
  ceasefire could only be effectively monitored if boots on the
  ground provided security for monitoring staff.


  A spokesman for the German Foreign Ministry told Reuters that
  Berlin and Paris are hammering out a plan to support the OSCE
  mission, but were only in the exploratory phase.


  The aid, set to be distributed by mid-October, will specifically
  be deployed to the east of the country before the onset of
  winter
The value of the cargo is estimated at 10 million euro.


  Meanwhile, the OSCE called for an immediate ceasefire in eastern
  Ukraine on Friday after civilians and a member of the
  International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) were killed.


  Kiev and militia forces have accused each other side of being
  responsible for the deaths resulting from the shelling of
  residential areas in Donetsk.


  "The ceasefire represented a real opportunity for a
  sustainable de-escalation of the situation; to put it at risk
  would be irresponsible and deplorable," Didier Burkhalter,
  the OSCE chairperson-in-office, was quoted by the organization's
  press service as saying.


  According to reports, fighting for Donetsk Airport has continued on
  Saturday
Ukrainian military spokesman Andrey
  Lysenko told journalists that 12 militia members were killed
  during the assault, “the biggest single loss among
  rebels since September 5."


  Lysenko added that two Ukrainian servicemen were killed during
  the past 24 hours, though he provided no further details
He
  denied local reports that rebels had used gas during their
  assault on the airfield.


  Fighters in Donetsk said they were honoring the truce, ITAR-TASS
  new agency reported, citing a statement from the self-proclaimed
  republic’s Defense Ministry.

