WASHINGTON –  Usama bin Laden (search ) made his first televised appearance in more than a year Friday in which he admitted for the first time ordering the Sept.
11 attacks and accused President Bush of "misleading" the American people.
Injecting himself into the campaign four days ahead of the presidential election, bin Laden said the United States can avoid another Sept.
11-style attack if it stops threatening the security of Muslims.
In the portion of the tape that was broadcast, the Al Qaeda (search) leader refrained from directly warning of new attacks, although he said "there are still reasons to repeat what happened."
"Your security is not in the hands of Kerry, Bush or Al Qaeda.
Your security is in your own hands," bin Laden said, referring to the president and his Democratic opponent.
"Any state that does not mess with our security, has naturally guaranteed its own security."
Admitting for the first time that he ordered the Sept.
11 attacks, bin Laden said he did so because of injustices against the Lebanese and Palestinians by Israel and the United States.
In what appeared to be conciliatory language, bin Laden said he wanted to explain why he ordered the airline hijackings that hit the World Trade Center (search) and the Pentagon so Americans would know how to act to prevent another attack.
"To the American people, my talk is to you about the best way to avoid another Manhattan," he said.
"I tell you: Security is an important element of human life and free people do not give up their security."
After the video was aired, President Bush said that "Americans will not be intimidated" by bin Laden.
Sen.
John Kerry criticized Bush for failing to capture bin Laden earlier and said that "I can run a more effective war on terror."
The political impact of the tape could cut both ways.
It bolsters Bush's argument that the world is a dangerous place and plays to his strength as commander in chief in fighting the war on terror, but it also underscores that his administration has failed to capture or kill America's No.
1 enemy more than three years after the terror attacks on New York and Washington.
It was the first footage in more than a year of the fugitive Al Qaeda leader, thought to be hiding in the mountains along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border.
The video, broadcast on Al-Jazeera television, showed bin Laden with a long, gray beard, wearing traditional white robes, a turban and a golden cloak, standing behind a table with papers and in front of a plain, brown curtain.
The Bush administration said it believes the videotape is authentic and was made recently, noting that bin Laden referred to 1,000 U.S
military deaths in Iraq -- which happened in early September.
White House press secretary Scott McClellan said the administration did not plan to raise the nation's threat level for now.
The U.S
official said the 18-minute tape -- which carries English subtitles, though not in the portion shown on Al-Jazeera -- lacks an explicit threat and repeats well-worn themes.
Multiple sources told FOX News that the tape is authentic and that it was made recently.
Al-Jazeera, which is based in Qatar, broadcast about seven minutes of the tape.
The station's spokesman, Jihad Ali Ballout, said Al-Jazeera aired what was "newsworthy and relevant" and refused to describe the unaired portions, including whether they included any threats.
Ballout said the station received the tape Friday but would not say how.
Before the tape was aired, the State Department asked the government of Qatar to discourage Al-Jazeera from broadcasting it, a senior State Department official said.
In the video, bin Laden accused Bush of misleading Americans by saying the attack was carried out because Al Qaeda "hates freedom." The terrorist leader said his followers have left alone countries that do not threaten Muslims.
He said he was first inspired to attack the United States by the 1982 Israeli invasion of Lebanon in which towers and buildings in Beirut were destroyed in the siege of the capital.
"While I was looking at these destroyed towers in Lebanon, it sparked in my mind that the tyrant should be punished with the same and that we should destroy towers in America, so that it tastes what we taste and would be deterred from killing our children and women," he said.
"God knows that it had not occurred to our mind to attack the towers, but after our patience ran out and we saw the injustice and inflexibility of the American-Israeli alliance toward our people in Palestine and Lebanon, this came to my mind," he said.
Bin Laden suggested Bush was slow to react to the Sept.
11 attacks, giving the hijackers more time than they expected.
At the time of the attacks, the president was listening to schoolchildren in Florida reading a book.
"It never occurred to us that the commander in chief of the American armed forces would leave 50,000 of his citizens in the two towers to face these horrors alone," he said, referring to the number of people who worked at the World Trade Center.
"It appeared to him [Bush] that a little girl's talk about her goat and its butting was more important than the planes and their butting of the skyscrapers.
That gave us three times the required time to carry out the operations, thank God," he said.
Excluding the hijackers, the Sept.
11 attacks killed 2,749 people at the World Trade Center, 184 at the Pentagon and 40 in Pennsylvania.
In planning the attacks, bin Laden said he told Mohammed Atta, one of the hijackers, that the strikes had to be carried out "within 20 minutes before Bush and his administration noticed."
Bin Laden compared the Bush administration to repressive Arab regimes "in that half of them are ruled by the military and the other half are ruled by the sons of kings and presidents."
He said the resemblance became clear when Bush's father was president and visited Arab countries.
"He wound up being impressed by the royal and military regimes and envied them for staying decades in their positions and embezzling the nation's money with no supervision," bin Laden said.
"He passed on tyranny and oppression to his son, and they called it the Patriot Act, under the pretext of fighting terror.
Bush the father did well in placing his sons as governors and did not forget to pass on the expertise in fraud from the leaders of the (Mideast) region to Florida to use it in critical moments."
The image of bin Laden reading a statement was dramatically different from the few other videos of the Al Qaeda leader that have emerged since the Sept.
11 attacks.
In the last videotape, issued Sept.
10, 2003, bin Laden is seen walking through rocky terrain with his top deputy Ayman al-Zawahri, both carrying automatic rifles.
In a taped message issued at the same time, bin Laden praises the "great damage to the enemy" on Sept.
11 and mentions five hijackers by name.
In December 2001, the Pentagon released a videotape in which bin Laden is shown at a dinner with associates in Afghanistan on Nov.
9, 2001, saying the destruction of the Sept.
11 attacks exceeded even his "optimistic" calculations.
But in none of his previous messages, audio or video, did bin Laden directly state that he ordered the attacks.
The last audiotape purportedly from bin Laden came in April.
The speaker on the tape, which CIA analysts said likely was the Al Qaeda leader, offered a truce to European nations if they pull troops out of Muslim countries.
The tape referred to the March 22 assassination by Israel of Hamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin.
Retired Lt.
Col.
Bill Cowen, a FOX News military analyst, said bin Laden timed the tape deliberately.
"I think he's just trying to slap the president around a little bit and in my opinion is trying to influence the election," Cowen said.
Cowen said that while the tape showed that the most wanted terrorist was still at large, it also should be seen in another light.
"This tape is also a reminder of how we've decimated the top Al Qaeda leadership," Cowen said.
"It took us 20 years to find Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber, right here in the United States."
WASHINGTON –  The Bush administration may have had advanced notice of the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks but failed to stop them in order to profit from the destruction, a Democratic congresswoman alleges.
"We know there were numerous warnings of the events to come on September 11.
What did this administration know and when did it know it, about the events of September 11? Who else knew, and why did they not warn the innocent people of New York who were needlessly murdered? … What do they have to hide?" asked Democratic Rep.
Cynthia McKinney of Georgia, according to The Washington Post. 
A spokeswoman at KPFA94.1 FM in Berkely, Calif., confirmed that McKinney had spoken on air from their studios on March 26
The staff was scrambling to answer reporters' phone calls and to get the audio from that session up on their Web site Friday.
A White House spokesman dismissed the allegations, calling them "ludicrous, baseless views."
In the interview, McKinney asserted that the Bush administration was serving the interests of the Carlyle Group, a Washington-based investment firm that employs several high-ranking former government officials from both parties and counts former President George H.W
Bush as an adviser.  
Georgia Democratic Sen.
Zell Miller said at first he thought to write off the comments as "loony," but then decided they were "dangerous and irresponsible."  He also reminded Bush to consider the source.
"I hope President Bush will remember that this is the same congresswoman who during each of his State of the Union addresses - arrives early to get a coveted aisle seat, then leans way over as Bush walks down the aisle, hoping he will give her a kiss for all to see on national TV," Miller said in a statement.
A spokeswoman at the radio station who asked not to be named said she believed that the newspaper had read too much into the congresswoman's comments.
"She was calling for a full investigation into the terrorist attacks.
She wasn't trying to implicate the president in any plot," she said.
On Friday, McKinney clarified her remarks, but repeated her assertions that certain corporations were benefiting from its ties to the White House.
"I am not aware of any evidence showing that President Bush or members of his administration have personally profited from the attacks of 9-11.
A complete investigation might reveal that to be the case," she said  "(W)hat is undeniable is that corporations close to the administration have directly benefited from the increased defense spending arising from the aftermath of Sept.
11.
The Carlyle Group, DynCorp, and Halliburton certainly stand out as companies close to this administration."
Also in the radio conversation, McKinney took several swipes at the president, accusing him of stealing the 2000 election, and calling his administration "questionable."
The chairman of the federal commission investigating Sept.
11 (search) said Wednesday the terrorist attacks could have been prevented.
"As you read the report, you're going to have a pretty clear idea of what wasn't done and what should have been done," he told one television station.
The comments were the first by Kean, former Republican governor of New Jersey, blaming public officials for not anticipating the attacks.
"There are people that, certainly, if I was doing the job, who would certainly not be in the position they were in at the time because they failed," he said.
Kean didn't name names but it has previously been reported that the Bush administration received intelligence warnings that provided hints about Usama bin Laden's (search) intentions before Sept.
11.
