Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
A lawsuit alleges that this video showing Mayor Rob Ford in a drunken rant is about Scott MacIntyre, the former common-law spouse of the mayor’s sister Kathy.

  
    Rob Ford
  
  , the mayor of Canada’s largest city, has been caught on video in an impaired rant saying he is going to kill someone and “rip his f---ing throat out.”


  “I’m gonna kill that f---ing guy.
I’m telling you, it’s first-degree murder,” Ford rages as someone in the room secretly uses a cellphone to film the chief magistrate’s addled tirade.


  Moments after the Star published the video online, Ford emerged from his office and apologized.


  
    Mobile users can click here for the blog
  
.

  The target of the mayor’s anger in the video is not in the room and is not known to the Star.


  Wednesday, Ford’s chief of staff, Earl Provost, said he could not speak to the Star about the video.
“I am sorry I cannot talk to you about this,” Provost said.


  Also on Wednesday, the Star sent a transcript of the video, a description of the video’s contents and an offer to show it to the following people in the mayor’s circle: Ford, his brother Councillor Doug Ford, Provost, deputy chief of staff Sunny Petrujkic, spokesman Amin Massoudi, and Ford’s lawyer, Dennis Morris.


  The Star invited all of them to view the video, either at their office or the Star’s office, and provide an explanation for Ford’s behaviour.
No one took the Star up on its offer.


  Ford only commented on the video after it appeared on
  
    thestar.com.
  


  Last week, Police Chief Bill Blair announced that investigators had recovered two video clips relevant to extortion charges laid against the mayor’s “close friend” Alexander “Sandro” Lisi.
One of those videos is of the mayor smoking what appears to be crack, which two Star reporters viewed in May.


  There is no suggestion that this video is the second video Blair referred to in his press conference.


  In this profanity-laden, 77-second video, Ford is seen pacing about the dining room of a house, threatening death to an unnamed enemy.
A person off-camera, who is encouraging Ford’s behaviour, tells him to wait until “after the by-election,” an apparent reference to the by-election Ford wanted the city to hold to replace departed deputy mayor Doug Holyday.


  The reference to the by-election puts the timing of the video sometime in August.


  The need to replace Holyday on council came on Aug.
1, when he became an MPP.
City council voted on Aug.
26 to choose his successor by appointment instead of the $250,000 by-election Ford said was the more democratic choice.


  Similar to the crack video the Star witnessed in May, Ford’s words switch rapidly from being easily heard to incomprehensible.


  “I am a sick motherf---er, dude,” says Ford, rolling the cuffs of his collared shirt up to his elbow.
“Like no one’s gonna f--- around with me.”


  At points in the video, Ford is incoherent.
He appears to say that unidentified critics call him and his brothers “birds.”


  At another point, he angrily mutters what sounds like “This is f---ed, daddy.” However, the outburst also sounds like: “That little prick’s a racist f---, daddy.”


  In the video, Ford frenetically waves his arms and shifts from foot to foot.
He stumbles backwards and gently bumps into the dining room table, on which sits a large bottle of alcohol.
As he grows more agitated he slaps his stomach hard and appears to be discussing a plan to get “in the ring” with someone.
Ford and voices off-camera seem to debate how long he will need for the attack.
He wants 15 minutes.
A man off-camera says he will only have five minutes.


  The Star purchased the video for $5,000 from a source who filmed the video from someone else’s computer screen, and that person was connected to people who were in the room during Ford’s rant, the Star was told.


  Asked why the paper paid $5,000 for the video, Editor Michael Cooke said: “Because of the huge public interest both in Toronto and worldwide.


  “Publisher John Cruickshank and I talked about the price and quickly decided that the crisis at city hall made it essential to get all information relevant to Ford’s true character and views in front of Torontonians.


  “This was especially crucial as the mayor insisted he had nothing left to hide and has called us liars and maggots from the beginning, when we reported on two of our journalists seeing a video that showed a clearly intoxicated mayor smoking crack cocaine.


  “One of the mayor’s pals is accused of going to extraordinary lengths to find and suppress the crack video, while all the while he was denying its existence.
We feared if we didn’t grab it quick, this revealing video might disappear.”


  The Star has been assured the money went to “the legal and beneficial use of a family.”


  The Star was told that Ford arrived at a supporter’s home and was clearly impaired.
The Ford supporter was described to the Star as a businessman.
Four people between the age of 20 and 60 were present during Ford’s outbursts.
One made the video using a phone camera.
This man appears to have been sitting on a couch near where the mayor was pacing, in front of a dining room table covered with a white tablecloth and surrounded by six chairs.
Blinds are drawn and a chandelier lights the room.
It is nighttime.


  “No holds barred, brother.
He dies, or I die, brother,” Ford says at the start of the video.


  Again, a voice off-camera, as if in call-and-response, says, “Mike Tyson,” a reference to the former boxer.


  Ford, shoes off, struggles to focus his rant, moving around the room and flipping from an aside about his brothers to unintelligible gibberish and back again.


  The Randy section is largely incomprehensible.
Randy Ford is the eldest Ford brother.


  The video has two distinct cuts where it appears the person stopped filming then started again or edited together three short clips.
It is unknown what, if anything, Ford said in the period of time that was not filmed.


  “Brother, I just need to go f--king by myself in my f--king underwear,” he says, slapping his belly six times.
Near the end of the video, Ford tells his audience, “If I win, I will f--king donate,” before trailing off and leaving the thought unfinished.
It is not known what the mayor is referring to.


  Near the end of the video, Ford tells his audience, “If I win, I will f---ing donate,” before trailing off and leaving the thought unfinished.
It is not known what the mayor is referring to.


  The video emerges after seven days of revelations.
Last Thursday, Chief Bill Blair announced police had found the crack video, the one Star reporters viewed that shows Ford making homophobic and racist comments while smoking a crack pipe.
Brother Doug called for Blair to resign.
Then the mayor announced he had smoked crack cocaine, once, during a “drunken stupor.”


  This email is a request from the Toronto Star for you to view, tonight, a video we have obtained.


  We have in our possession a 1 minute 17 second video that shows Mayor Ford impaired, at a constituents house, threatening to kill someone.
It is somehow related to the byelection and we believe the video was made in August.
Mayor Ford is extremely aggressive.


  Please respond shortly and I will show you or your staff the video.

Canadian soldier buried in the Netherlands 70 years after his death.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
Mayor Rob Ford’s latest spiral into substance abuse began on St.
Patrick’s Day weekend just over a month ago, with a party at an exclusive Toronto club that helped provide booze to the past two Ford Fests.
On March 15, the Saturday just before St.
Patrick’s Day, the mayor took four men he had met outside city hall back to his house, ordered a party bus, took them down to Muzik nightclub and proceeded to drink to excess, according to eyewitnesses to the evening.
Ford disappeared into the washroom at one point, and emerged close to an hour later appearing heavily impaired, babbling that his wife and children do not like him and “I am in over my head.”
People who were with Ford on March 15 and on a second night, in April, say they believed he was doing drugs.
On the April night, an eyewitness saw him doing lines of cocaine.
On March 15, an hour before he disappeared into a washroom at Muzik, Ford ran into pop star Justin Bieber in a common area of the exclusive nightclub near Toronto’s waterfront, according to witnesses.
Ford tried to shake Bieber’s hand and became enraged when Bieber jokingly asked him, “Did you bring any crack to smoke?”.
Security ushered Ford back to his party booth, where he was entertained, along with the four men, by three paid party hostesses.
The Star has been unable to reach Bieber for comment.
This March 15 event, which extended until 5 a.m
on March 16, is one of two wild nights Ford had at the night club in the past month.
According to three sources with knowledge of Ford’s visits to Muzik, owner Zlatko Starkovski has told staff at the club that “Rob Ford is our best customer.
His money is no good here.”
The Star’s ongoing investigation of Ford shows close ties with Starkovski, who is listed on the provincial liquor licence for the last two Ford Fests — giant parties for Ford supporters where free drinks and food are served.
Starkovski, and people who work for him, are listed as registered lobbyists in their attempts to contact city council members to seek improvements to the nightclub’s deal at Exhibition Place.
Alcohol and Gaming Commission catering forms obtained by the Star show that the liquor licences for both the July 5 and Sept.
20 Ford Fests were obtained by Starkovski, the president of Muzik Clubs Inc.
Starkovski is listed as the licence holder and provincial rules state the licence holder is responsible for the “sale and service of alcohol” at an event.
Councillor Doug Ford, the mayor’s brother, would not discuss the arrangement that saw Muzik catering to thousands of people at both Ford Fests, one on July 5, 2013, the other two months later on Sept.
20.
He said the most recent Ford Fests were a “private party” and that the Star should be “very, very careful” about what it writes.
He then hung up.
Ford’s March 15 night at Muzik began innocently enough, with the slightly tipsy mayor outside city hall around 10 p.m
Torontonians will recall that was the occasion when a youth recorded the mayor using foul language and getting into a taxi with four men.
It was unclear at the time if they were friends.
He had just met the men near the Nathan Phillips Square skating rink, according to two sources, and invited them back to his house, a 25-minute drive northwest to central Etobicoke.
Ford has a wife and two young children but it was not known if they were home at that time.
After getting to his house, Ford called a “party bus,” which came and drove them all back south and then east to the Ex grounds.
“MUZIK defies convention each and every Saturday.
With an unprecedented degree of luxury and service, MUZIK provides its guests with first-class treatment from the moment they arrive.
Guests who book suites will be escorted to their private booth by MUZIK’s hostesses and will then enjoy private premium bottle service as well as gourmet cuisine from the Muzik Dinner Club,” according to the description.
Ford and his new entourage showed up around midnight and were ushered into a private booth.
Three party hostesses were told to hand over their phones, according to sources with knowledge of the night.
The Star has been told by people familiar with Muzik that this is typical behaviour when Ford arrives.
Bieber was there that night, partying in a common area.
Ford left the booth to say hello and had a run-in with Bieber, who jokingly asked if Ford had any crack cocaine.
Angered, Ford blustered back to his private booth.
People familiar with his activities over the next five hours (at least two partygoers, a Canadian actress and a Bieber follower tweeted that Ford and Bieber were there but did not provide details) say that Ford drank to excess and at one point went to a private washroom.
He emerged 45 minutes later and was incoherent and rambling.
A cleaner at Muzik had to go into the bathroom and clean up vomit left after Ford exited.
Two sources told the Star that Ford returned to the table and kept drinking, staying at the club until 5 a.m.
A few weeks after this event, on April 5, Ford was at the Air Canada Centre, apparently drunk and belligerent, and was barred from an executive lounge.
He left and made his way to Muzik.
According to witnesses, Ford slipped into a closed-off part of the club with two females and another male.
He emerged an hour later disoriented and apparently high.
Canadian soldier buried in the Netherlands 70 years after his death.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  
    Mayor Rob Ford
  
  was off the wagon at an Etobicoke steak joint this week, impaired and rambling, associating with accused video extortionist Alexander “Sandro” Lisi and hurling profane, expletive-laden insults at Toronto Police Chief Bill Blair.


  Ford is incoherent during portions of the video.
In other parts he clearly uses Jamaican expletives that members of the
  
    local community say are “highly offensive”
  
  to women.


  The video was posted to YouTube on Tuesday afternoon.
Two men tried to sell it to the Star and other media for $7,500 earlier in the day.
The men told a Star reporter the late-night antics of the mayor at Steak Queen in Rexdale was evidence Ford still hung out with Lisi; that Ford was not true to his claim of having stopped drinking; and that he had driven intoxicated to the restaurant.


  Ford
  
    admitted Tuesday to drinking
  
  but denied driving to the Steak Queen.
He did not say how he got to the fast food steak restaurant.
A witness to the night’s activities told the Star Ford’s black Cadillac Escalade was parked out front.


  Lisi is important to the story because he is the Ford friend who faces charges of extortion for aggressive attempts to retrieve the
  
    original crack cocaine video
  
  (showing Ford smoking crack and making racist and homophobic remarks).
Lisi has a previous conviction for threatening to kill a woman and also currently faces drug charges as part of the ongoing Project Brazen 2, a probe of the mayor by top Toronto detectives.
Lisi’s bail conditions do not prevent him from seeing Ford, though in Lisi’s upcoming criminal case the mayor may be called to testify.


  In another section of the new video Ford brags that during the police investigation he ran “counter-surveillance” on the undercover detectives that were watching him.


  In a second video released Tuesday, Lisi, wearing a Canada Goose winter coat, is seen chatting with Ford at the Steak Queen the same evening.
During Ford’s drunken rant later in the evening, Lisi is off camera.


  Someone answered Lisi’s cellphone when the Star called for comment Tuesday afternoon, appeared to listen to the reporter, then hung up.
Lisi’s lawyer, Seth Weinstein, said he could not comment on questions about Lisi and Ford because the matter is before the courts and Lisi “is not a public figure and will not be drawn into discussing his personal life.”


  Extensive police surveillance of Ford and Lisi last summer revealed the two meeting each other frequently and exchanging packages, text messages and phone calls, often during business hours.
Police allege Lisi tried to retrieve the crack video but have not named a person, if one exists, who asked him to do so.


  Toronto and the world had a Christmas break from the Ford saga after Toronto’s top politician, stripped by council of his powers, went on an exercise kick and publicly vowed he was done with substance abuse.


  As recently as early last week, Ford was continuing to maintain that his drinking days were over.
On Jan.
13, after a well tweeted visit to Muzik nightclub, a reporter asked the mayor if he’d been drinking and Ford responded angrily: “You know what, I’m not even gonna answer that question.
Were you drinking this weekend? Were you drinking this weekend? Well then? No I wasn’t drinking.
I don’t drink.”


  In November, after admitting to smoking crack cocaine, Ford told several news outlets he was done drinking.
“Finished” was what he said to the CBC’s Peter Mansbridge.
To CP24’s Stephen LeDrew, Ford said he was “100 per cent” done with alcohol.
The host pressed him: “So you have no personal issues? The people of Toronto aren’t going to see you in a state of inebriation?” Ford told both outlets he’d had a “come to Jesus moment.”


  When the Steak Queen video surfaced, Ford’s brother Doug, a councillor, quickly suggested it was from earlier days.
Soon after, Mayor Ford admitted the video was current but he had an explanation for the event.


  In the video, Ford stands with his back to the counter and speaks to someone off camera.
Ford clicks his tongue and sucks his teeth and uses Jamaican expletives.


  A prominent member of the Jamaican-Canadian community, Donette Chin-Loy, told the Star’s Royson James the words are “offensive to women.” In brief comments to reporters Tuesday Ford said his remarks were not “discriminative.”


  One former supporter of Ford’s, Councillor Denzil Minnan-Wong, said “there’s a profound disappointment and sadness that it looks like he’s fallen off the wagon.”


  Councillors, he said, had been rooting for Ford to succeed.
He said they believe Ford should seek the “appropriate help” he needs.


  Councillor Michael Thompson, who is the only black member of council and is of Jamaican descent, said he found Ford’s behaviour “offensive.” He said Tuesday was a “real sad day.”


  Thompson was a staunch Ford ally for much of the term.
On Tuesday, he said Ford is not “fit” to continue in office.


  Deputy Mayor Norm Kelly said the video is further proof Ford needs “professional help.” He said Ford’s lack of public “self-control” puts the reputation of the city at risk.

A lawsuit alleges that this video showing Mayor Rob Ford in a drunken rant is about Scott MacIntyre, the former common-law spouse of the mayor’s sister Kathy.

  The Steak Queen is east of Highway 427 and south of Finch Ave.
W.
Ford and Lisi have been there before, according to information the Star gathered over the past year.


  According to the people who recorded the video, Ford made disparaging comments off camera at the restaurant about Toronto city councillors, along with his recorded verbal attack on Chief Blair.
The man who recorded one of the two videos known to have been taken early Tuesday morning said Ford grew more animated and sounded more impaired as his time at the Steak Queen wore on.
The Star was also approached Tuesday by a man who saw and videotaped Ford at a local Tim Hortons at 11 p.m., before the Steak Queen visit
The man said Ford was incoherent and rambling at that location as well.


  The Steak Queen did a brisk business after news surfaced that it was ground zero for the latest controversial video.


  Journalists lined the booths at the Steak Queen restaurant Tuesday evening.


  Yvon Romano, a 39-year-old Etobicoke electrician, was less than enthusiastic about the mayor.
While eating at the restaurant, Romano said he appreciates how Ford “acknowledges the little guy” but added that he’s surprised by his recent behaviour, particularly the news that Ford was videotaped at the eatery with Lisi.


  Penny Morrison, a Rexdale resident who identified herself as an unflinching Ford supporter, entered the restaurant to express her views to the media.


  “The entire world laughed at Jesus too .
.
.
I want Rob to know that come Oct.
27, he’s the boss and he will win.”


  Wednesday is a big day at City Hall as Ford and the executive committee meet to cast their final vote on the city budget.

Canadian soldier buried in the Netherlands 70 years after his death.
