Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  If you are on mobile,
  
    please click here for the interactive poll tracker.
  

Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				David Soknacki speaks to reporters after a speech in December.
The former councillor will be jumping into the race Monday, a typical move for candidates who need time to build name recognition against better known contenders.
			
Mayor Rob Ford is already on the ballot, having filed his paperwork Thursday.
But it looks like the rest of the likely-to-runs — Karen Stintz, John Tory, Olivia Chow and Denzil Minnan-Wong — won’t be getting in for at least another month, possibly as late as early spring.
In a 10-month campaign, when is the right moment for a candidate to make it official?.
Rocco Rossi, who took on Ford and George Smitherman in the last election, says the timing question is a balancing act that’s different for everyone.
In 2010, Rossi signed up as soon as the nomination process opened.
Back then, Rossi was a heavyweight in political circles, having served formerly as the Liberal Party of Canada director, but a virtual unknown to the broader public.
There’s also the issue of money.
Candidates can’t start fundraising until they’ve registered.
A viable mayoral campaign needs a little more than a million dollars.
And all of that takes time.
The downside is that Toronto’s municipal election period is one of the longest — perhaps the longest — in the country.
It spans 10 long and expensive months.
Registration means candidates can accept donations, but also means they can start spending.
Staff, signage, a website, an office, launching a brand — a million dollars goes fast, Rossi said.
Ford is the first, and the worse, in 2014 election: Editorial.
There’s also a practical benefit to watching from the sidelines as long as possible.
“The sooner you get in, the sooner you have to answer questions.
And for some who don’t have to worry as much about name recognition, you don’t want to have to answer those questions until the very last moment, tactically,” he said.
“You could be put on the defensive earlier than you want to be,” he said.
Rossi, who is now the president of Prostate Cancer Canada, had been the CEO of Ontario’s Heart & Stroke Foundation before he quit to run for mayor.
Though it was not his first dalliance with local politics.
In 2003, Rossi ran John Tory’s near-miss campaign against David Miller.
Now that he was the candidate, Rossi was hoping to inherit Tory’s centre-right base.
For an unknown, he got off to a reasonable start.
A January 2010 Angus Reid-Toronto Star poll put Rossi’s support at 15 per cent, with Smitherman way out in front.
Then everything fell apart for him — and everyone else in the race — at the end of March, after Ford declared.
“It was surreal.
From the moment he came in, I mean, he just sucked up all of the oxygen.
And I can’t think of anything (I would have done differently) that would have made a significant difference,” Rossi said.
Ford had a rock-hard brand on taxes, waste and entitlements.
It was a message that resonated with the mood of the electorate.
At the time, it made sense for Ford to wait a few months before getting in, the same way it makes sense for Tory — who now has his radio show on Newstalk 1010 — and Chow, one of the most high-profile politicians in the country.
But this time around, Rossi says he wasn’t surprised to hear the mayor filed his papers early.
“I think he wants to send a clear message to everyone — in particularly those on the centre right — that he will be there.
And that makes the math on the centre right very difficult, because he does have a hard core of support,” Rossi said.
For the 2014 campaign, Soknacki will be the Rossi in the race.
Soknacki is a businessman, a former columnist with Metroland, and during his time on council served as the city’s budget chief.
As a right-leaning candidate with business bona fides, Soknacki has the resume, just not the name recognition.
“We’re facing somewhat of an uphill battle when it comes to name recognition and don’t really have the luxury of a daily radio talk show or an upcoming book tour to spread our message or get David’s name out there,” said his spokesperson, Supriya Dwivedi, taking a not-so-subtle jab at Tory and at Chow, who will soon release a well-timed memoir.
Dwivedi also said Soknacki “has been quite clear from the onset that he intended to register early, and doesn’t really believe in playing the ‘will he or won't he’ game with registration.”
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  If you are on mobile,
  
    please click here for the interactive promise tracker
  
  .

Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				John Tory did well in the poll conducted by Forum Research on the day he formally registered his candidacy for mayor of Toronto.
			
Olivia Chow, John Tory and Rob Ford are locked in a tight early race for Toronto’s mayoralty, though Tory and Chow have much more room than Ford to improve, according to the first opinion poll since Tory announced his candidacy.
Monday’s Forum Research poll of 1,310 residents, conducted on the day Tory and Karen Stintz registered to run, gave Tory 39 per cent support, Ford 33 per cent, Stintz 15 per cent, and David Soknacki 5 per cent in a race among the major declared candidates.
Chow, the NDP MP, has not formally started campaigning; she is almost certain to register by the end of March.
In a hypothetical race with Chow included, she and Ford tied at 31 per cent; Tory, the former Progressive Conservative leader, had 27 per cent; Stintz, a city councillor, had 6 per cent; Soknacki, a former councillor, had 2 per cent.
Those figures suggest Ford will struggle to stay afloat if voters who are unhappy with him eventually coalesce around a single top challenger.
A competitive slugfest between two or more challengers, however, could give the polarizing incumbent a chance to eke out a victory with less than 40 per cent of the vote.
Tory’s Monday numbers were higher than they were in Forum’s other polls this winter.
He had the highest approval rating, at 55 per cent.
Ford’s approval was stable at 44 per cent.
Chow’s was 51 per cent, Stintz’s 38 per cent, Soknacki’s 26 per cent.
Tory’s support was spread relatively evenly throughout the city.
Chow was strongest in the old municipalities of Toronto and East York, with 39 per cent; Ford was weakest in those areas, with only 19 per cent, but stronger than both Chow and Tory in the suburbs.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Olivia Chow is the first left-leaning challenger to incumbent Rob Ford.
			
Olivia Chow will return to the hardscrabble Toronto neighbourhood where she grew up to launch her campaign Thursday to become mayor of Canada’s largest city.
Just hours after resigning her NDP seat in the House of Commons, Chow officially joined the race Wednesday afternoon.
A member of her campaign team registered Chow’s candidacy at city hall, a day earlier than expected.
“Why not, no reason,” said Bill Cronau, her campaign’s chief financial officer.
Another volunteer, Bob Gallagher, also signed the paperwork, as did city Councillor Mike Layton, son of Chow’s late husband, NDP leader Jack Layton.
More on the election:.
The left-leaning politician joins an already crowded field of right-wing contenders preaching fiscal restraint.
Chow is expected to promise bold, progressive changes for the city.
Her challengers, including Mayor Rob Ford, wasted no time painting her as a spendthrift politician while evoking the past.
Ford told CP24 he welcomed Chow’s entry in the race and said she makes former mayor David Miller “look like a conservative.”
Councillor Karen Stintz’s mayoralty campaign issued a statement saying the city can’t afford “to go back to the ways of an NDP Mayor.”
“Toronto needs someone reasonable and accountable in the mayor’s chair, not someone who is going to perpetuate old-style ‘tax and spend’ attitudes,” the email said.
Businessman David Soknacki steered clear of any attack Wednesday as he stumped for the mayor’s job in the snow.
He and Chow were both city councillors during the reigns of both Mel Lastman and David Miller.
“Welcome to the race, look forward to debate, look forward to the seven months ahead,” Soknacki said.
Voters go to the polls Oct.
27.
Chow has led in most polls of potential contenders over the past year; the most recent, a late February survey by Forum Research, put her in a tie with Ford and gave her a slight lead over Tory.
Chow’s campaign will be managed by veteran John Laschinger, who has run campaigns for Miller and top provincial and federal Conservatives.
Warren Kinsella, the veteran Liberal strategist, is also involved.
Chow has been endorsed by George Smitherman — the Liberal who was defeated by Ford in 2010 — and filmmaker Deepa Mehta, among others.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

  That’s because, despite all his bluster about sweeping to victory, Rob Ford won’t be re-elected as mayor when voters go to the polls in October.


  Indeed, Ford stands a real chance of finishing a poor third in the race and could end up playing more of a role as a spoiler than being a viable contender for the mayor’s office.


  As much as Ford Nation will cry unfair, defeat for Ford is the most likely outcome of this race that pits the crack-smoking, ill-mannered mayor against top contenders Olivia Chow and John Tory.


  Clearly, many Toronto residents are deeply worried that the mayor could win this election.
Those concerns seem to be even more exaggerated among those “elites,” “lefties” and “downtowners” Ford uses as verbal punching bags in his campaign speeches.


  They are based on early polls that suggest Ford has a voter approval rating forever stuck between 40 and 45 per cent, regardless of what shame he brings on himself and the city, on television images of 1,500 wildly cheering Ford enthusiasts at his
  
    campaign kick-off
  
  event, of scenes of people clamouring for Ford bobbleheads and lining up to take “selfies” photos with the mayor wherever he shows up.


  Added to that is the international “celebrity” status that Ford has garnered after appearing on U.S
late-night shows.


  Taken together, they might suggest Ford could be re-elected, coming up the middle as Chow and Tory — and Karen Stintz and David Soknacki to a lesser extent — split the anti-Ford vote.


  Ford has no growth potential in the polls; he lacks support from any major community, political, religious or academic leader; every newspaper, including the Toronto Sun, which endorsed him in 2010, opposes his candidacy; and his lone main campaign message of controlling city hall spending can be easily usurped by other candidates.


  To win, Ford needs to capture 37-42 per cent of the votes in the Oct.
27 election.
Currently, only 23-27 per cent of Toronto voters say they would actually vote for him in the election.
To be re-elected, Ford must improve that number by about 50 per cent.


  But where does that extra support come from? An
  
    Ipsos Reid poll
  
  in December conducted on behalf of CTV News indicated 61 per cent of voters would never consider voting for Ford.
Also, Ford is the second choice of few voters polled compared with Chow and Tory.


  In the 2010 election, Ford got 47 per cent of the votes.
Many of them held their noses when they cast their ballots for Ford, disliking his personal failings but loving his message of “Stop the Gravy Train.”


  To date, Ford has done nothing to try to win them back.
Rather, he is frantically trying to solidify his core base, playing up his “celebrity” and bashing the “elites” he claims are out to get him.


  Also, the bulk of Ford’s supporters are young, lower income, less educated, male and from outer parts of suburbs such as Scarborough and North York.
All these groups are the least likely to vote in an election, which greatly hurts Ford’s campaign efforts.


  It’s because most Toronto residents believe city hall is failing to take vigilant care of their tax dollars.
To that end, Ford is seen as the guy who really cares about this issue.


  With Ford, voters like the message but hate the behaviour.
With Chow, voters like the behaviour but are wary about her message on spending.
With Tory, they like the behaviour but aren’t sure of the message.


  No doubt, Ford will remain a big factor in the race because of his message.
At the same time, election campaigns really do matter, as Tory knows from his failed 2003 mayoral bid.


  Ultimately, though, barring any unforeseen implosion by
  
    both
  
  Chow and Tory, Ford’s days as mayor will soon be over — and the city can relax again.

The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
“I would really like to be mayor,” a deflated John Tory told the Star days after finishing a close second to David Miller in the 2003 Toronto mayoral race.
While active in municipal, provincial and federal politics for more than 30 years — his first and only electoral victory remains in 2005, when, a year after being elected leader of the Ontario Conservative party, he coasted to an easy win in a byelection that secured him a seat in the legislature.
“I will never forget this moment,” he said at the time.
“I will never forget the trust you have placed in me.”
Tory was tagged as the Conservatives’ best shot at toppling premier Dalton McGuinty’s Liberals in 2007.
It was not to be after Tory was forced to backpedal on a $400-million campaign promise to extend funding to Muslim, Jewish, Christian, Sikh, Hindu and other religious schools.
He remained leader despite a less-than-overwhelming show of support at the party’s annual meeting, but stepped down by 2009.
Fast-forward to 2014, and Tory and Olivia Chow are the early favourites in the contest to beat Mayor Rob Ford.
Tory’s formula of leadership is a conservatism of free enterprise coupled with fiscal responsibility.
The key is for him to persuade voters that his “unparalleled experience” in the business world and passion for Toronto will put him in the driver’s seat in the race to be mayor of Canada’s largest city.
“John knows how to successfully lead, manage and obtain results from large, complex organizations,” his website says.
Tory has the support of a many prominent Torontonians.
They include former deputy mayor Case Ootes, who ran Ford’s 2010 transition team; Liberal provincial minister Brad Duguid; Gail Nyberg, executive director of the Daily Bread Food Bank; and Ontario PC president Richard Ciano, whose business partner, former Ford campaign chief Nick Kouvalis, will be part of Tory’s campaign.
Despite his Conservative pedigree, Tory believes new taxes are needed to pay for transit expansion.
His priority is what he calls the “the Yonge St.
subway relief line.” It would run in a U shape down into the downtown core from the east and west sides of the Bloor-Danforth line, and possibly from as far north as Eglinton Ave., relieving pressure on the crowded Yonge-University-Spadina line.
He has recently maintained a high-profile public presence as the chair of CivicAction, an advocacy group, and as the host of a radio talk show on Newstalk 1010.
Tory is positioning himself as a consensus builder and willing listener whose inclusive style achieves results.
“You’re not going to be able to tackle gridlock in the streets if you’ve got gridlock at city hall,” he said recently.
Education: B.A
University of Toronto (1975), Law degree Osgoode Hall law school York University (1978.) He was called to the bar in Ontario in 1980.
Resumé: MPP, Leader of Ontario PC Party and official opposition, CEO of Rogers, commissioner and chairman of the Canadian Football League, chair on revitalizing Ontario Place, founding member and former chair of the Greater Toronto CivicAction Alliance. Host of Live Drive with John Tory
Accomplishments/failures: Many credit him with saving the Canadian Football League from going out of business in the ’90s.
He performed the job for $1 a year.
Not so well remembered was his management of federal Tory leader Kim Campbell’s ill-fated election campaign in 1993 when the party was reduced to two seats.
Tory also lost to David Miller in 2003.
In 2007, as leader of the Ontario PC party, his faith-based education idea helped give Dalton McGuinty a massive majority.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Defence lawyer Ari Goldkind ponies up the $200 fee required to register for the mayoral election.
			
Goldkind is smart, has realistic ideas about fixing Toronto’s transit woes, and as an outsider doesn’t have the baggage so many career politicians carry.
This 2014 municipal election is (politically) the most star-studded contest Toronto has seen since amalgamation.
Voters have three top-tier candidates to choose from in John Tory, Olivia Chow and Rob Ford.
Karen Stintz hasn’t cracked double digits in the polls yet, but she has A-list strategists on her team, access to donor dollars and solid name recognition.
Former councillor David Soknacki is a long shot, but he has enough support from current members of council that he landed the token “dark horse” slot on the major candidate roster.
The rest are the so-called “fringe” contenders.
There’s a dominatrix, an 18-year-old high school student and a musician activist whose campaign website is robbnotford.com.
In fact, because the starting lineup is so packed, some of the “fringe” might actually have had a shot in years gone by.
Sarah Thomson, who registered her candidacy Thursday morning, was the Soknacki in the 2010 election.
(She eventually dropped out to support George Smitherman).
There’s also former councillor and police board chair Norm Gardner.
So for candidates like Thomson, Gardner, and Goldkind — who know the odds are stacked against them, but push forward anyway — the question is: Why bother?.
“The truth is, I’ve been asked this even by people close to me,” said Goldkind.
“I believe that if I can just get a seat at the table, you put me in a room with Tory, Ford, Stintz or Chow, and no one is going to question that I should be there.”
Gardner said much the same: “I think if I can get my message out, I think I could get a lot of support,” he said.
(Gardner’s main priorities are fixing ambulance service and shelving the Scarborough subway extension until other, higher priority areas are dealt with.)
Bernie Morton, a seasoned political veteran who helmed Rocco Rossi’s bid in 2010, said there’s no easy answer to the fringe question.
“On the one hand you want to encourage democracy.
On the other hand, you want to make sure that the electorate is properly served.
And when you see a ballot with so many names on it, often I think it can confuse the voters,” Morton said.
“Running when you have no chance of winning and knowing that you (can’t) raise the money needed to share your ideas, and if you don’t have a strong component of community support, then really — those motivations are not in the best interest of the electorate.”
At present, there are 41 candidates registered to run for mayor.
By Oct.
27, there will be many more.
And unfortunately, said Morton, most don’t seem to be there for the right reasons.
“I think if they were serious they would probably put their name on the ballot to run for council first,” Morton said.
“Most aren’t even part of their local ratepayers association or engaged in community groups.”
It’s not written in stone that a mayoral candidate has to be a councillor first, he said.
Someone with a high-profile position in the public and/or private sector could be just as qualified, but the motivation should be serving the public, not self-promotion.
People sometimes point to Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi — who came out of nowhere to win back in 2010 — as an example of why it’s important to give a platform to more than just the perceived frontrunners.
But as Peter MacLeod points out, the odds might have been against Nenshi, but he wasn’t “fringe.” He was a professor who had been involved in various high-profile civic movements, who was able to rally ground support and inspire the electorate with ideas.
MacLeod, who is the principal of MASSLBP —essentially a democracy consulting firm — said the lack of political parties in Toronto’s system is partly to blame for the huge number of candidates.
A party system helps weed out those who aren’t serious.
Then again, he said, “We’ve got to have a degree of patience for the vanity projects and self-promoters, because it’s also a hallmark for an open society.” 
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Olivia Chow speaks during her official campaign launch at a St.
James Town church on Thursday.
She led handily in a poll taken within 24 hours of the launch, perhaps enjoying the same kind of bump John Tory did on his day of entry into the campaign.
			
Olivia Chow led the field of mayoral candidates in a poll conducted the day of her official campaign launch event.
Chow had the support of 36 per cent of respondents, incumbent Rob Ford 28 per cent, John Tory 22 per cent.
They all held wide leads over Karen Stintz at 5 per cent and David Soknacki at 2 per cent.
Seven per cent were undecided.
The Thursday poll may have captured public opinion at an especially favourable time for Chow.
It followed two full days of heavy media coverage, and it was conducted less than 12 hours after the former NDP MP made her inaugural speech to an enthusiastic crowd.
Tory, the former Progressive Conservative and CivicAction leader, appeared to receive a similar bump in a poll conducted the day of his own entry in late February.
In that poll, Chow and Ford tied at 31 per cent each.
Tory had 27 per cent, Councillor Stintz 6 per cent, former councillor Soknacki 2 per cent.
Chow, however, has come first in most polls over the past five months, regularly hovering around the mid-30s.
Both of the most recent polls were interactive voice response automated telephone polls conducted by Forum Research.
The latest sampled 1,271 residents.
It is considered accurate within 3 percentage points, 19 times out of 20.
His approval rating, at 42 per cent, trailed those of Chow and Tory (57 per cent each), and it was only slightly better than the ratings for presently uncompetitive Soknacki (38 per cent) and Stintz (37 per cent).
The approve-or-disapprove question was asked of people who said they had heard of the candidate; a relatively low 77 per cent said they had heard of Stintz, and only 56 per cent had heard of Soknacki.
In the current five-candidate race, Chow, who is most popular downtown, held a big lead in Toronto and East York, with 48 per cent to Ford’s 18 per cent.
She also led all candidates in North York, with 37 per cent.
She was competitive even in Scarborough, her weakest area, where she had 27 per cent to Ford’s 34 per cent.
Chow was the top choice of residents aged 18 to 34; Tory of residents 65 and older.
Election Day is Oct.
27, more than seven months away.
Ford did not even enter the 2010 race until the end of March.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
The race to become Toronto’s next mayor now has four candidates in the running, with very different political pasts.
Here’s a look at their greatest hits and misses, from faith-based schools to the Scarborough subway.
Platform: Tory, 59, registered his candidacy Monday after months of speculation.
He’s running on a platform that prioritizes a downtown relief subway line and promises to keep property taxes low, although he has been a vocal advocate of the need for new taxes to pay for transit.
What he’s done to become mayor: The former leader of the Ontario Progressive Conservative party has remained in the limelight by hosting an afternoon rush show on Newstalk 1010.
He has also kept a high profile as the chair of CivicAction, an advocacy group focusing on economic and social issues in Toronto.
Hits and misses: Tory has been immersed in politics his entire life and was a tour manager for the federal Conservatives during Brian Mulroney’s successful bid.
In 1993.
He managed Kim Campbell’s disastrous election campaign, running TV ads that appeared to mock Jean Chrétien’s facial paralysis.
The party was reduced to two seats.
A decade later, in 2003, he stepped down from his job at Rogers Cable to embark on his first bid for mayor.
He began the race with low name recognition and single-digit support, but wound up overtaking better-known candidates Barbara Hall and John Nunziata to finish a strong second to David Miller.
Soon after, he ran successfully for leader of the provincial Conservatives.
But the party lost the 2007 election, in part because of a proposal to extend public funding to faith-based schools.
Although some have speculated Tory was saddled with the policy, and he insisted at the time that it was about “fairness,” the issue repelled many voters.
Platform: Stintz, former TTC chair, will also campaign for a downtown relief line.
She has said her administration would reform the land transfer tax, support a joint Toronto-U.S
bid for the 2026 World Cup and explore a “hybrid” solution for the east Gardiner Expressway, preserving the stretch between Jarvis and Cherry Sts.
What she’s done to become mayor: Stintz has represented Ward 16, Eglinton-Lawrence, since 2003.
The conservative councillor was one of the leaders of the unofficial opposition to left-leaning David Miller.
Her profile shot way up after Ford hand-picked her for TTC chair in 2010.
In 2012, Stintz broke ranks with Ford to persuade council to return to Miller’s plan for above-ground light rail lines on Finch Ave., Sheppard Ave
and the Scarborough RT corridor.
The vote marked a resounding defeat for Ford and won Stintz fans on the left.
Finally in 2013, Stintz joined with Ford to push for a Scarborough subway instead of the fully funded LRT — and a tax hike to pay for it.
Council voted 24-20 in October in favour of the subway.
Platform: Ford’s “subways, subways, subways” platform lives on in 2014.
The mayor says he plans to win Sheppard and Finch subways to replace those planned rail lines and has named a downtown relief line his “third” transit priority.
He remains publicly opposed to new taxes to pay for transit, although he supported a property tax hike to pay for the $3 billion Scarborough subway.
While he pledged in 2010 to eliminate Miller’s land transfer tax, he now promises to reduce it.
Hits and misses: Ford kept his campaign promise to eliminate the vehicle registration tax, which has cost the city $200 million in revenue.
He also privatized garbage pickup west of Yonge St., which has received some positive reviews from local residents.
The Scarborough subway is Ford’s big win, although it will cost the average household $1,200 in increased property taxes.
Ford supported a tax hike to pay for the three-stop line, which will cost the city $1 billion and take up to 30 years to pay for, compared with a seven-stop LRT the province had promised to fund fully.
But the council vote to strip the mayor of nearly all his powers in November was a major political loss.
Ford has long been accused of being divisive and failing to build consensus, but council was pushed to the brink by revelations that police recovered a video of the mayor appearing to smoke crack cocaine and that he continues to be investigated.
Deputy Mayor Norm Kelly has since taken the reins at city hall, and Premier Kathleen Wynne has repeatedly met with Kelly instead of Ford, including on Monday, when she visited city hall to talk about cleanup of December’s ice storm.
Platform: Soknacki, a former councillor and right-leaning businessman, has pledged to scrap the Scarborough subway and return to the fully funded LRT to save taxpayers money.
He has also suggested he would oppose a move to outsource garbage pickup across the city.
In a jab at Ford’s spotty attendance record, he has promised to release an itinerary of his public engagements and produce an annual report that accounts for any absences.
What he’s done to be mayor: Soknacki was a city councillor from 1999 to 2006 and has acknowledged he has work to do to raise his profile.
He completed a stint as Miller’s budget chief during the mayor’s first term.
After leaving politics, he returned to his successful spice business, became a columnist for Torstar-owned Metroland and became the chair of Downsview Park.
Hits and misses: He entered politics in 1994 as a Scarborough councillor and was elected to amalgamated council in a 1999 by-election.
He successfully proposed a ban on politicians hiring immediate family members, opposed pay hikes for councillors and donated a portion of his council salary back to the city.
As budget chief for Miller, he disagreed with the left-leaning mayor on many issues.
He supported contracting-out services to save money, and preferred a property tax freeze to the average 3 per cent hikes since Miller became mayor in 2003.
When Soknacki announced in 2006 he would not be running again, some at city hall speculated that he had been increasingly unable to influence the mayor’s agenda and was frustrated.
“There was a sentiment of: ‘I give up trying to make a difference,’” Councillor Michael Thompson said at the time.
Soknacki inherited a political football with Downsview Park, a former Canadian Forces base turned national park that has languished in federal red tape since the 1990s.
After years of inaction, he helped create a new vision to carve out green space and build dense new neighbourhoods to help pay for the redevelopment.
But the plan was criticized by the local councillor and residents, who continue to oppose high-density development in the area.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
But after 40 years of reporting on, analyzing, strategizing within and dissecting municipal, provincial and federal elections, I see a perfect storm brewing — a unique set of four factors that points toward the re-election of our chief reprobate.
Factor one is the entrenchment in western culture of politics as a spectator sport.
It’s been an American thing for decades — since actor Ronald Reagan became governor of California in 1967, followed generations later by pro wrestler Jesse Ventura in Minnesota in 1999 and action movie star Arnold Schwarzenegger in California in 2003, cartoon-character candidates with off-the-scale name recognition have been tough to beat in single-candidate elections like a mayoralty race.
A name sufficiently burned into the public mind can turn a stuffy election into a really fun game, a phenomenon best captured by an Arnie voter who famously told CBC: “Why am I voting for him? I just want to see what happens.”
This year, Hollywood and Jimmy Kimmel have helped Ford become a larger-than-life celebrity, adding to his already remarkable levels of awareness and familiarity, attributes that consistently drive ballot choices.
It’s having an effect.
The latest Forum Research polls show Ford with a late-summer baseline of some 32 per cent of the decided vote, after everything he’s put us through.
To a significant portion of our electorate, celebrity and notoriety blend into a single positive criterion for mayoral electability.
Factor two: today’s news coverage is driven by Google hits, not carefully considered editorial choices or, heaven forbid, balance and fairness.
In February, serious-minded (and then fifth-place) candidate David Soknacki held a news conference on a condo-lined street a block from city hall to lay out his reforms to the Land Transfer Tax.
In a pre-emptive strike, Ford’s campaign-manager brother Doug told the city hall press gallery the mayor would be visited at the same hour by magician David Blaine to do card tricks.
Three reporters (including one from the Star, to its credit) attended Soknacki’s event; the rest swarmed the mayor’s office where Blaine was a no-show.
“Yeah, that was something of a low point for the press gallery,” a Star reporter told me, but his criticism is misplaced.
Today’s media owners demand content that generates search engine hits, substantive public discourse be damned.
In this climate, Ford has monopolized the headlines, set the agenda and been the story of the 2014 election campaign, even when locked in rehab.
The metrics that drive today’s news media are not about to change, much to the incumbent’s benefit and the exasperation of other candidates trying to be serious, build profile, gain traction and genuinely improve the city.
This context fosters factor three, an election campaign that stands to become a referendum on Rob Ford’s character and suitability for office.
In a normal world, the next two months would be the time to debate the complex issues that will determine Toronto’s future, weigh policy approaches and assess options, and pick the leader most capable of implementing his or her platform of priorities and plans.
But Toronto’s new normal is a cartoon campaign covered by media fearful of missing a Ford-centric beat, focused intently on what he’ll do next.
Candidates who persist in treating this as a battleground of ideas face obscurity.
But the tidal wave in this fall’s perfect storm is factor four — the potential appeal of a “reformed” Rob Ford.
Doug Ford is a cunning strategist; he can read these tea leaves, too.
His candidate brother can deliver his lines and execute, not suavely, but with great impact and effectiveness.
If the Fords put the mayor forward as a contrite, changed person who has learned a lesson from everything he’s been through, the conditions are in place for him to cobble together enough votes to prevail over John Tory and Olivia Chow on Oct.
27.
This approach would consolidate and galvanize Ford’s core vote, while reaching out to a significant number of voters who have turned away from the mayor but who would look at a “reformed” Ford and feel that if they were in his shoes, they too would want a second chance.
It’s a powerful message, one that could even appeal on the left to progressives who believe in the principle of rehabilitation, and on the right to conservatives who, disgusted as they may be by Ford’s shenanigans, believe deeply in personal redemption.
This approach would be a nightmare for the other candidates.
Everything in the tool box they could throw at Ford, from character-based attacks to careful accounting of his misstatements and failures, would become counterproductive and strengthen Ford’s position that he’s been made better by his experience.
I know strategists in the camps of each of Ford’s challengers.
They’re not sleeping well these nights.
The monster under their beds is a Ford campaign that weaves together the threads of this perfect storm, produces and delivers a persuasive narrative, and does the unthinkable: wins re-election for the mayor in resounding fashion.
The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.

						 Removing the East Gardiner provides biggest payback, report sayscomments
					.

						 Take the quiz: Ontario's new sex ed curriculumcomments
					.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Toronto mayoral candidate John Tory makes a transit announcement at a Canadian Club luncheon in May.
A new poll puts Tory in the lead.
			
John Tory would be mayor of Toronto if the municipal election were held today instead of Oct.
27, according to a new poll.
Among decided voters, Tory leads with 39.1 per cent, followed by Olivia Chow with 32.7 per cent and Rob Ford 21.7 per cent
None of the other major candidates received more than 5 per cent support.
“Tory does well among men.
Chow among women.
We are still far from an election but the other clear finding is that there seems to be little growth potential for Ford at this juncture of the campaign.”
The pollster asked residents: “If the election for mayor of Toronto were held today, please tell me your first choice and your second choice from the following list of candidates.
The list included the three frontrunners in addition to Karen Stintz (4 per cent), Sarah Thomson (2 per cent) and David Soknacki (1 per cent).
Nick Kouvalis, lead strategist on Tory’s campaign after helping Ford win in 2010, said the new numbers show Ford is not a factor in the race since his return last week from rehab where he was treated for drug and alcohol abuse.
However, political strategist, Warren Kinsella, who is a volunteer with the Chow campaign, tweeted that a lobbyist for the group that paid for the poll is a former adviser to Tory.
The survey was paid for by the Ontario Convenience Store Association.
Nanos said the lobbyist has nothing to do with the reliability of the survey.
“I personally wrote the questions and oversaw the project,” Nanos wrote in email when asked about Kinsella’s tweet.
Councillor Doug Ford, who is the mayor’s campaign manager, said the election is going to be “about the John Tory establishment versus the common folk that Rob represents for the last four years.” Ford was talking to reporters at city hall before the poll results were released.
Nanos said to his knowledge, this is the first publicly released survey conducted using proper random sampling of land and cell lines with live human beings validating identity.
“These types of survey have the best and most consistent track record in terms of capturing voter opinion,’ he wrote.
The pollster included the caveat that the results cannot be projected to a future vote.
The election related questions were asked at the outset of the survey followed by proprietary questions related to convenience stores.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
A secret request to alter her pay and a string of spending scandals appear to have battered the reputation of Brampton Mayor Susan Fennell, according to a new poll of the city's voters.
Despite Fennell’s recent insistence in council that “There is no scandal in Brampton” — a phrase she repeated three times — it appears nearly three-quarters (74 per cent) of those polled disagreed.
Some 72 per cent disapprove of the job Fennell is doing.
But the biggest problem facing the beleaguered mayor of Canada’s ninth largest city, according to the weekend poll by Forum Research, is her chances in the Oct.
27 election.
In a three-way race with fellow mayoral candidates Linda Jeffrey, a long-time Brampton MPP, and Councillor John Sanderson, Fennell is lagging way behind.
She would draw 18 per cent of the vote, compared with 39 per cent for Jeffrey and 26 per cent for Sanderson.
Recent revelations that Fennell and her staff charged $663,000 on their city-issued credit cards since 2007 for things such as LCBO purchases, luxury hotel stays, high-end restaurants, jewelry and first-class airfare (Fennell said some of the expenses were later reimbursed) has angered many voters.
Eighty per cent of respondents said they do not approve of city-issued credit cards being used for travel and entertainment expenses, and six in 10 blame Fennell alone for the recent spending scandals in Brampton.
A forensic audit is underway by Deloitte Canada, investigating spending by Fennell and the rest of council.
Sanderson’s call for an audit followed a series of media reports about spending by Fennell’s office starting last fall, based on documents obtained under freedom of information law.
Only 12 per cent of those surveyed said it’s acceptable to use city credit cards to cover travel and entertainment costs.
But Fennell refused to apologize for any of the spending racked up on plastic when councillors publicly demanded explanations two weeks ago.
Fennell said the luxury hotels at which she stayed on several occasions were not chosen by her; that a flight to Ottawa cost $1,850 because it was booked on a flight pass that would otherwise have expired (she flew to other Canadian cities at the same price); and that her $2 airport luggage rack charges were for other travellers in her group.
It was recently revealed that she secretly asked to not be paid for the last two months of 2013, which critics argued was an attempt to lose her politically costly 2012 status as Canada’s highest-paid mayor.
It's unclear if she has since received the salary payments that were stopped by the city treasurer on Fennell's confidential instruction.
Councillors are now awaiting the results of the ongoing forensic audit, expected to be finished by July.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				From left, Karen Stintz, John Tory, Olivia Chow, David Soknacki and Rob Ford shake hands before the first Toronto mayoral debate in March.
A new poll shows the three main candidates -- Chow, Tory and Ford -- virtually tied.
			
Toronto’s mayoral election is a three-way dead heat between Olivia Chow, John Tory and Rob Ford, the latest poll suggests, though Ford has by far the least room for growth.
In a Forum Research survey conducted Monday, Chow had the support of 29 per cent of respondents, Tory 28 per cent, Ford 27 per cent, Karen Stintz 6 per cent, David Soknacki 5 per cent; 4 per cent said they didn’t know.
The results are considered accurate within three percentage points, 19 times out of 20.
The Forum poll is the best for Ford since March.
It is starkly at odds with the last public poll, by Nanos two-and-a-half weeks prior, that found him 17 points behind Tory and 11 points behind Chow.
Ford’s support was unchanged Monday from the last two Forum polls: he had 26 per cent support in early July, 27 per cent in late June.
He was closer to the lead this time — in a statistical tie — because Chow’s support dropped from 36 per cent in early July and 34 per cent in late June.
The Forum poll is the second consecutive poll that has suggested a Chow decline relative to her competitors.
Until July, she had led comfortably in every poll for three months.
Until this poll, she had not once been under 31 per cent in any Forum poll conducted since the election began in January.
The poll suggests, again, that an even three-way vote split would present Ford’s best chance of winning the election despite his unpopularity.
Ford shows little ability to substantially improve his numbers.
His approval rating was a dismal 33 per cent, by far the worst of the five candidates, and 59 per cent of respondents said he should resign, about the same as in previous polls.
Tory, the former Progressive Conservative leader, had the highest approval rating, 67 per cent.
Chow, the former NDP MP, was second with 54 per cent.
Soknacki, the former Scarborough councillor, had 48 per cent approval.
Stintz, the current midtown councillor, had 44 per cent.
Soknacki continues to suffer from low name recognition: just 66 per cent said they had heard of him, a full 30 points lower than the number that said they had heard of Chow.
Eighty per cent said they had heard of Stintz.
The poll suggests Ford is strong in Scarborough, among low-income voters, among voters with little education, and among people of Caribbean background, though the Caribbean sample was small.
Chow is strong with younger, lower-income downtown voters and Tory with older, higher-income suburban voters.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.
By the summer of 2012, Chow was polling ahead of the mayor in a re-election match-up.
In all the months since then, through the political battles, the scandals and other contenders entering the mix, Chow has never lost her frontrunner status.
She is the Hillary Clinton of Toronto politics.
And the inevitability factor around her candidacy isn’t the only parallel.
Until her late husband Jack Layton died in August 2011, Chow was one of half of the most powerful political couple in Canada.
Together, through his oratory and her ground-game expertise, they brought the New Democratic Party to Stornoway.
The pair met in 1985, when she was running as a school board trustee and he for city council — each for the NDP.
The pair were married three years later on Algonquin Island, with the Toronto skyline serving as decoration.
After winning a seat on the school board, Chow moved on to city council in 1991.
She was re-elected five times at the municipal level — she and Layton were councillors together — before moving on to the House of Commons in 2006.
Chow became the MP for Trinity-Spadina.
Layton was already serving as the representative in Toronto-Danforth.
It was quite the rise for a woman who grew up in poverty, whose parents were two immigrants who both struggled to find work in Canada.
Chow was born in Hong Kong in 1957.
She grew up in a highrise in St.
James Town, and her mother, a trained teacher, found work as a maid.
“My father had been beating my mother even before I was born, but these beatings now escalated as new strains and pressures rocked them both,” Chow wrote.
“My father had been managing his life quite well in Hong Kong despite the irrational anger that darkened the home front.
But now, in that eighth-floor apartment in St.
James Town, faced with disappointment and shame, his fury boiled over.”
With the municipal election seven months away, it looks as if Chow will be the lone left-wing candidate in a five-way race.
The question her supporters are now nervously asking: Will she — like Clinton, and more locally Barbara Hall and George Smitherman — bear the frontrunner’s curse?.
Education: Bachelor of Fine Arts from the University of Guelph; also studied fine arts at the Ontario College of Art as well as philosophy and religion at the University of Toronto.
Notable accomplishment: Chow is the reason that non-English speakers can dial 911 in a crisis and get someone on the phone who understands them.
She pushed for multilingual 911 service, which now includes 140 languages.
What she would do if elected: Would kill the Scarborough subway and return to a light-rail model, which she argues is cheaper, covers more ground and could be built faster.
In her campaign kickoff speech, Chow said she wants to put children at the forefront of policy decisions.
On specifics, she mentioned after-school programs and the library system.
Khadr 'ready' for release: 'I hope that people get a chance to know the new me'.

				Commuters on the Bloor-Yonge subway station heading south on Yonge at 8:45 a.m
experience perhaps the worst crush the TTC has to offer.
Voters polled by the Star picked transit as one of the key issues of importance to them in this year's municipal election.


			.
In a city gripped by transit gridlock and mayoral misbehaviour, perhaps it’s no surprise that these two concerns topped the list when voters in North York and East York were asked for their “number one issue.”
Unemployment, infrastructure, emergency planning and property taxes were also popular answers, when the Star set out to discover which topics will be important to residents in the upcoming 2014 municipal election.
Every week until election day, the Star will be tracking what residents say they want, need and hope for, traveling to neighbourhoods all over the city.
Results will be printed weekly and compiled monthly in the Star and on thestar.com.
In January, we’re asking this question: The 2014 municipal election is now underway — what is the number one issue you want addressed?.
This weekend, we went to busy shopping centres in North York and East York and talked to 25 people in each.
We’ll move to other parts of the city in coming weeks.
Amid the hustle and bustle of Fairview Mall, in the Sheppard Ave.
E.
and Don Mills Rd.
area, Catherine McDermott, an infant development consultant, said her top priority is reducing the cost of public transit.
“To somebody who has to take the bus two or three times a day, $3 bus fare is outrageous,” said McDermott, who must drive a car for her work, but hopes to use the TTC when she retires.
McDermott was one of a dozen people who named transit their number one issue.
Others who talked transportation expressed their anger with subway delays, especially on the Yonge-University line, and spoke of the desperate need for a downtown relief line.
Lisa Hollands, a medical transcriptionist who commutes from North York to Scarborough every day, said she was frustrated by the “bunching” of buses traveling between the neighbourhoods.
The city’s transportation woes will no doubt drive many to cast their ballots in October, but another defining issue of the election will likely end up being Mayor Rob Ford’s record.
Ten people told the Star their number one issue is the mayor’s misbehaviour — including his admission, after many denials, that he has smoked crack cocaine.
For Abu Sarwar, a 48-year-old health store manager, the mayor’s repeated lies — about his drug use, association with criminals and the existence of the “crack video” — are cause for grave concern.
Many who spoke to the Star were still waiting for more candidates to emerge before deciding how to vote.
But of those who hope not to see Ford re-elected, several said they were concerned about Toronto’s reputation.
“It reflects badly on the city,” said Griselda Ram, a retired George Brown College professor.
“Although he’s trying his best at this time, people should keep in mind certain things will never change and we should have much better candidates.”
Ford’s supporters, on the other hand, tended to cite tax policy and fiscal responsibility as their top concerns.
Charles Hynes, a 41-year-old Home Depot employee, was one of three people who said lower property taxes were their number one issue.
Meanwhile, five others said the city needed to invest more in infrastructure — including roads, bridges, sewer systems and hydro lines — to keep up with population growth and environmental change.
“I think part of fiscal responsibility is recognizing that we need to pay for the services that we deserve and should have,” said Noel Simpson, an East York resident and director of a supportive housing agency.
Noubar Takessian, an engineer, said he was worried Toronto was not keeping up with global warming.
He said the city’s infrastructure was not built to handle rainfall like that of July’s massive storm.
“The existing infrastructure has to be upgraded to keep pace with environmental change,” he said.
“It’s a concern for me, but I am thinking for the children, for the future generations, we have to keep pace.”
The recent ice storm that hammered the city, cutting power to hundreds of thousands of homes, was still top of mind for many residents.
Three people said their top priority would be emergency management planning.
Unemployment was another big issue that voters in North and East York wanted to discuss.
Of the six that said job creation was their greatest concern, two were themselves unemployed.
“I am desperately looking for work,” said Aziz Chowdhury, 55, who worked in the financial services sector up until a year ago.
He said he and his wife are getting by for now, but times are getting tougher.
“The cost of living, every day, it is going up.
This year, the power bill in every household is going to be an additional $14 per month, so that’s another $160-170 per year.
It’s crazy.”
North and East York-area residents’ No.
1 issues: by the numbers.
