
Aaron Harris / For the Toronto Star
			

				For Ukrainians, Europe doesn’t mean the the European Union, it means a country without corruption, says Ukrainian writer Andrey Kurkov.
			
“Ukraine will never be the same state as before. But Russia will not change.”
Ukrainian novelist Andrey Kurkov’s irony cuts as elegantly as a scalpel, and the blade is aimed at the corrupt, ignorant, money-grabbing, power-seeking and sometimes brutal authorities who have dominated the territory of the former Soviet Union.
Born in what was then Leningrad — his father was a Soviet test pilot — Kurkov came to Kyiv as a toddler, and he speaks both Russian and Ukrainian. That gave him an ideal vantage point on the year-old “Euromaidan” uprising, with its violent aftermath of Russia’s annexation of Crimea and support for a separatist rebellion in eastern Ukraine.
While his earlier books — like Death and the Penguin — are works of dark, surreal satire recalling Russian writers Nikolai Gogol and Mikhail Bulgakov, his most recent work is the non-fiction Ukraine Diaries: Dispatches From Kiev.
It records how growing unease with the leadership of Viktor Yanukovych slid into protests, violent clashes and national disaster, through the eyes of a wry observer who is also struggling to live a normal life. In Toronto last week for a speaking engagement at U of T, Kurkov said that in this disorienting landscape, life now trumps art.
Ukraine’s “Euromaidan” revolt is described as the European Union vs. Russia: is that an oversimplification?
That’s a cliché many journalists use for a very complex situation. For Ukrainians, Europe doesn’t mean the EU, it means a country without corruption: with rule of law, civil society, civilized life with European standards. The Euromaidan wasn’t a unified movement, it was dozens of groups with different interests. Almost nobody writes that the famous (radical) “Right Sector” has an ideology that is anti-Russian, anti-European and anti-NATO.
What about the propaganda war — Russian-speakers vs. Ukrainian speakers, “fascists” vs. “terrorists?”
On language, one example explains everything. About seven to eight million Russian speakers live in Ukraine, and about 50 per cent of the population speaks Russian. About 80 per cent of people in Kyiv speak Russian, but you’ll not find any pro-Russian movements or Putinophiles there. Another complex issue.
As for the rhetoric, it has toned down in the past month or so. It’s now “separatists” and “pro-Ukrainians.” That doesn’t sound so abusive.
It’s a clash of two mentalities — the post-Soviet collective mentality, where people lack initiative and are taught to depend on the boss or factory owner for perks. And people who start businesses and take responsibility themselves.
In Donbass (in the east) you won’t find many small businesses. But if you check the register in Lvov, you’ll see tens of thousands.
Many outside Kyiv saw the Euromaidan as a far-right coup. How large a role did it play in ousting Yanukovych?
They played quite a large role. After the Orange Revolution (which began in 2004) young patriots said that it came to nothing because there was no physical struggle. Without removal of the corrupt officials and politicians there will be no change. Ten years later they united under the Right Sector (banner.)
The (Euromaidan) was associated with peaceful protest. But the radicals built their own barricades on Grushevsky Street leading to the cabinet and parliament. The first deaths occurred there. But even if there was no violence on the side of the Right Sector sooner or later there would have been violence from Yanukovych.
The first thing Yanukovych did as president was sign a prolongation (of the lease for the Russian naval base in Crimea) for another 25 years in exchange for promised lower gas prices. Putin deceived him many times. Yanukovych said publicly, in front of his own party, that he was fed up with Putin. He said he was not in love with Europe, but felt betrayed by Putin.
How important was the annexation of Crimea for Ukraine? President Petro Poroshenko has said Ukraine would never give it up.
The Crimea (invasion) marked the beginning of the war. The lack of reaction from the West gave Putin the idea that he could expand his territory, plan the occupation of the southeast and the unification of Transnistria (a separatist region of Moldova). After the annexation of Crimea, Transnistria asked the Kremlin to accept it as part of the Russian Federation. So obviously there were plans to disintegrate Ukraine.
You point out that a root cause of the Euromaidan was corruption. New laws to target corruption have just been signed. But how hard will it be to bring in real reform?
There are two kinds of corruption in Ukraine: low level, like paying doctors who demand money for treatment or paying off local police. Then there are fixed schemes between business, ministries, customs etc. A lot of those big schemes are still running. That is the worst danger. The information is there and always available. But action is never taken.
There are two enemies: inside and outside the country. Reforms face huge sabotage by civil servants who were there for 20 years running corruption schemes and are trying to stop the reforms brought in by top managers coming from abroad. And at the same time the economy is in difficulty.
If Russia’s forces — and Russian-backed forces — withdrew from Ukrainian territory, would Ukraine be the same country it was before the Euromaidan?
Ukraine will never be the same state as before. But Russia will not change. Even if Putin is removed there is no democratic force that would try to change Russian politics. However, the more  Putin becomes the more chance there will be of a new (Nikita) Khrushchev — someone who wants to reconstruct relations with the West.
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…
Two hundred Canadian military trainers will be deployed to Ukraine this summer. Defence Minister Jason Kenney says the troops will be stationed in western Ukraine, far from the embattled eastern part of the country.
OTTAWA—Russia is calling Ottawa’s decision to send 200 military trainers to Ukraine “deplorable” and “counterproductive” to finding a political solution for the conflict.
In a statement, the Russian embassy in Ottawa said the two-year training mission will not help in ending the “fratricidal” conflict between Kyiv and eastern Ukrainian rebels, who are supported by Moscow. 
“It would be much more reasonable to concentrate on diplomacy and encourage authorities in Kyiv to finally enter into a genuine political dialogue with Donetsk and Lugansk Republics as it was agreed upon in (the) ‘Minsk-2’ accords in February,” the statement read. 
Unlike the noncombat mission in Iraq, which “evolved” and resulted in Canadian troops close to the front lines, Defence Minister Jason Kenney said the trainers will be nowhere near the conflict in Ukraine’s eastern provinces. Instead, they’ll be conducting the training close to the Polish border in western Ukraine. 

				Defence Minister Jason Kenney says Canadian military trainers  in Ukraine will be nowhere near the conflict the eastern provinces.
			
But the Russians claim Canada’s mission will aid a “military buildup” being pushed by Kyiv that is “neither appropriate, nor helpful.” 
Paul Robinson, an expert on Russia and Russian military history at the University of Ottawa, said he doesn’t believe Canada’s involvement will have any major effects on the political talks between Ukraine and Russia, being brokered in large part by Germany and France. 
“The Russian communiqué today is a little stronger language than what’s been said in the past . . . (but) I think that’s generally how they view it: we don’t think it’s helpful, but it’s not something which requires us to escalate in turn,” Robinson said. 
Robinson said he suspects that there’s domestic politics in play for all parties — including Canada and Russia — in their response to the conflict in Ukraine’s eastern provinces.
Hope for a political solution was rekindled after February’s announcement of a ceasefire, although the partial truce has shown signs of deteriorating recently. 
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…
Two hundred Canadian military trainers will be deployed to Ukraine this summer. Defence Minister Jason Kenney says the troops will be stationed in western Ukraine, far from the embattled eastern part of the country.

				Prime Minister Stephen Harper and General Thomas Lawson made the announcement in Ottawa.
			
OTTAWA—Canadian troops are on their way to another global hot spot, this time to Ukraine to help troops there push back against the aggression of Russian-backed rebels claiming territory in eastern regions of the country.
But Defence Minister Jason Kenney said the 200 Canadian troops that will soon be headed to Ukraine will be on a noncombat mission, far from the actual hostilities, to help train local forces.
Gen. Tom Lawson, the chief of defence staff, said that Ukrainian soldiers have “pride and fighting spirit” and that the role of Canadian trainers will be to “accelerate” their fighting abilities.
The military assistance was immediately praised by Ukraine but could be viewed as a provocative move by Russia, adding to the chill between Moscow and Ottawa.
The troop deployment, which will last two years, is the latest response by Ottawa to Russia’s moves in early 2014 to annex Crimea and then back separatist forces in eastern Ukraine.
It also marks the second deployment of Canadian soldiers into a regional hot spot. Special forces soldiers are already on the ground in northern Iraq training Kurdish and Iraqi forces who are battling Islamic extremists.
Months into that deployment, it was revealed that Canadian special forces soldiers sent on a noncombat mission were calling in airstrikes and exchanging gunfire with extremists. The military explained the revelation by saying the mission had “evolved.”
When training begins this summer in Ukraine, however, most of the Canadians will be at a NATO facility in Yavoriv in western Ukraine, close to the Polish border.
“These Canadian Armed Forces personnel will not be going anywhere remotely close to the conflict zone in eastern Ukraine,” Kenney said Tuesday.
The Canadian soldiers will join with the U.S. and Britain to train their Ukrainian counterparts in areas such as disposal of improvised explosive devices, medicine, flight safety and logistics.
Kenney said that Canada has discussed with U.S., Germany and Britain the possibility of supplying Ukraine with ammunition and weapons. “It’s our government’s view that Canada cannot and should not act alone in that respect but we are leaving all options on the table.”
“We believe that by helping to strengthen and professionalize the Ukrainian military, that too helps improve deterrence and also reduce casualties,” he said.
“Unfortunately Putin’s regime prefers to talk with the gun in the hand so Ukraine today is facing its biggest threat in its modern history,” Shevchenko said.
Canadian shipments of military gear along with the new training mission “will considerably increase our capacity to resist Putin’s regime, Putin’s aggression and finally save the lives of many civilians,” Shevchenko said.
Military: Canada has joined in Operation Reassurance, a NATO-led mission meant to deter further Russian aggression in Eastern Europe. The frigate HMCS Fredericton was recently in the Black Sea. Canadian soldiers are training in Poland. Last fall CF-18 fighter jets joined an air policing mission over the Baltic states.
Sanctions: Canada has imposed a broad range of economic sanctions on Russian corporations and individuals to put a financial squeeze on the country.
Diplomacy: Canada continues to give Russia the cold shoulder. Defence Minister Jason Kenney said Tuesday that diplomatic contacts between the two countries are “extremely limited.”
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…
OTTAWA—Prime Minister Stephen Harper declined to rule out supplying lethal military aid to Ukraine if diplomatic efforts to resolve the conflict with Russian-backed rebels in the eastern part of that country fail.
Merkel, who stopped briefly in Ottawa Monday evening after a visit to Washington, is engaged in a furious round of shuttle diplomacy over Ukraine. Worried about the possibility of a proxy war in Ukraine between the West and Russian President Vladimir Putin, she is stressing the need to find a diplomatic solution to the deepening conflict.
Earlier at the White House, U.S. President Barack Obama weighed in on Ukraine after a meeting with Merkel. The U.S. has so far provided only non-lethal aid to Ukraine but Obama said Monday he might reverse his position if diplomacy fails to make headway in ending the fighting there. 
While emphasizing the need to move cautiously, the Conservative government renewed its demands for Putin to halt the military action in east Ukraine by Russian-backed separatists.
Jason Kenney, who was appointed defence minister on Monday, said Canada must continue to confront the “outrageous Russian aggression” in east Ukraine.
Harper said both Canada and Germany recognize the territorial integrity of Ukraine and “we will never — no matter how long it takes, notwithstanding what methods are used — Canada will never accept the illegal occupation of Ukrainian territory by Russia.”
Harper said he and Merkel also discussed economic conditions, the continuing efforts to implement the Canada-European Union free-trade deal and the rise in Iraq and Syria of Islamic state, which Harper termed a “jihadist monster.”
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…

				Wayne Gretzky greets Prime Minister Stephen Harper at the United for Ukraine Gala fundraiser in Toronto Thursday evening.
			
On the 13th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the United States, Prime Minister Stephen Harper warned that Canada faces new threats but will stand alongside Ukraine with “unblinking resistance.”
At the United for Ukraine Gala fundraising dinner on Thursday, Harper gave the keynote address and spoke of the threats toward democracy from old foes and new.
“I am prompted by today’s sombre anniversary — that of 9/11 — to acknowledge a sad truth . . . Threats we thought we had overcome are returning to trouble us yet again,” Harper said Thursday night to the 1,200 people gathered at the Toronto Congress Centre.
“In the 13 years since the Twin Towers (in New York), the Pentagon and United Airlines Flight 93 were attacked, we have confronted terrorism in one failed state only to have it surface in yet another. And now an old foe — one we thought had been consigned to history — has risen once again in another incarnation to threaten the world’s stability and security.”
Before Harper spoke, hockey legend Wayne Gretzky, whose grandparents are Ukrainian, made a surprise appearance with his wife Janet. Eugene Melnyk, owner of the Ottawa Senators, who is a tireless fundraiser for Ukrainian causes, introduced the Great One. Gretzky joked that this was the first and only time the owner of an Ottawa hockey team would get a warm reception in Toronto.
Harper, whose strong stand against Vladimir Putin has gained him strong support in the large Ukrainian-Canadian community, verbally lacerated the Russian president in his speech.
“Desperate to obscure his own failures of leadership Mr. Putin has been stoking the fires of the crudest form of populist nationalism. Desperate to camouflage, on his watch, the struggles of Russia’s present, and waning hopes for its future, he has been summoning ghosts from the past — ghosts of an imperial Russia that have manifested themselves in his reckless and illegal annexation of Crimea, and in the war being waged at first by his proxies — and now by his soldiers — in Ukraine’s east,” he said.
Harper added the sanctions in place against Putin’s regime are working and that the Russian economy is teetering on recession.
He extolled the virtues of Canada’s ties to Ukraine, reminding the friendly crowd that 1.2 million Canadians are of Ukrainian heritage, among them four past and present provincial premiers. And he announced that next week the new Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko will make an official state visit to Canada. Canadian election observers will also be on hand in Ukraine during the October parliamentary vote.
The sold-out dinner, with tickets going at $125 a plate, had a bevy of Tory politicians in attendance, ministers and ambassadors including Immigration Minister Chris Alexander, former Ontario premier Ernie Eves and provincial Progressive Conservative leadership candidates MPPs Christine Elliott and Lisa MacLeod. Toronto mayoral candidate, John Tory — the former leader of the Ontario PCs — was also in the crowd.
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…
NATO says Russia has sent troops into Ukraine's embattled eastern region. If true, that could threaten the fragile cease-fire.

				An amoured personnel carrier rolls on a main road in rebel-territory near the village of Torez, east of Donetsk, in eastern Ukraine on Wednesday.
			
MOSCOW—NATO accused Russia of sending troops and weapons into eastern Ukraine Wednesday, as Ukrainian officials announced that they were bracing for a return to hostilities in the eastern part of the country.
U.S. Gen. Philip Breedlove, NATO’s top commander, told reporters in Bulgaria that the Western alliance had observed “columns of Russian equipment, primarily Russian tanks, Russian artillery, Russian air-defense systems and Russian combat troops, entering into Ukraine” over the past few days.
Gen. Igor Konashenkov, a spokesperson for the Russian Foreign Ministry, swiftly dismissed the accusations as “hot air,” arguing there are “no facts” to support “the supposed presence of Russian armed forces in Ukraine.”
But Breedlove’s charges are only the latest alarm bell NATO and its allies have sounded in recent days.
Last week, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said the organization had observed Russian troops moving closer to the Ukrainian border. By Friday, Ukraine had accused Russia of sending troops, tanks and weapons into eastern Ukraine — the same day the Ukrainian military claimed to have killed up to 200 pro-Russian separatist fighters during a skirmish around the Donetsk airport.
Over the past few days, monitors working for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe have reported seeing convoys of weapons and other military systems moving west through eastern Ukraine.
Tensions have been quickly escalating since Nov. 2 elections in Ukraine’s rebel-held eastern territories, which Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said last week had jeopardized “the entire peace process” — but which Russian officials said they would respect. Poroshenko also called last week for deploying military units to the east and south of Ukraine to safeguard against potential attacks from pro-Russian separatists.
On Wednesday, Ukrainian Defense Minister Stepan Poltorak told Ukrainian government officials that plans to redirect military reserves to potential flashpoints in the east and south of the country are underway, and that the Ukrainian army will be preparing itself for wintertime combat because of an uptick in activity the Ukrainian government had noted among separatist militias.
A representative of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic said Wednesday that separatists have no plans to attack the Ukrainian military, instead accusing the Ukrainian military of stepping up attacks against areas controlled by pro-Russian separatists.
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…

				Ukrainian ambassador to Canada Vadym Prystaiko shakes hands with Rob Nicholson, Canada's minister of National Defence Thursday on the tarmac at CFB Trenton in Trenton, Ont., where a hercules aircraft was loaded with non-lethal military aid bound for Ukraine.
			

  So far, Ottawa has attached no price tag to the package, which follows similar promises of so-called non-lethal military aid by the United States.


  Exactly why Ukrainian soldiers face such a dearth of sleeping bags is unclear. Some blame the notoriously corrupt politicians who have governed the country since its independence.


  Yet on paper, the Ukrainian military appears quite respectable. The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency World Factbook calculates that even before the current turmoil began, Ukraine spent, proportionally, far more on its military than Canada.


  In terms of gross domestic product devoted to defence, Ukraine ranked 27th in the world — just between Britain and South Korea. Canada ranked 83rd.


  The website Global Firepower estimates that, compared to Canada, Ukraine has more front-line soldiers, more tanks and about the same number of military aircraft.


  Russia, of course, has far more of everything. But in an all-out war with
  
    Russia
  
  , it’s not clear that even the extra Canadian helmets and American night-vision goggles would help Ukraine much.


  Will there be such an all-out war? To listen to Ottawa, you’d think there already was. Mindful of the large Ukrainian-Canadian voting bloc, politicians from all three major parties vie with one another to castigate Russian President Vladimir Putin for what Defence Minister Rob Nicholson Thursday called
  
    his aggression
  
  .


  Harper has compared Putin to Hitler and likened the Ukrainian conflict to the First World War.


  Certainly, Russia is far from blameless in this dismal affair. Putin took advantage of political chaos in Kyiv to retake Crimea for Russia. It’s an open secret that he backs the current rebels. There is pressure on him to seize that part of Ukraine which once belonged to Tsarist Russia.


  But no one is squeaky-clean. The New York Times reports that Ukrainian government forces shelled and bombed civilian buildings,
  
    including a hospital
  
  , in the east this week. At least four civilians were killed.


  And the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees says the fighting has driven thousands of Ukrainians from their homes.


  Speaking in Geneva Tuesday, a UNHCR official said that in the first seven months of this year, about 117,000 Ukrainians displaced from the east went to other parts of Ukraine, while between 168,000 and 730,000 fled to Russia.


  Meanwhile, NATO expansionists are pressing their case to bring Ukraine into the western military alliance.


  Yet what many forget is that even the dictatorial Putin is a politician who needs broad support to govern. So far, his actions in the Ukraine are resoundingly popular in Russia.


  As the New York Times reports, Putin’s new ban on Canadian, U.S. and European agricultural products may push up Russian food prices. But it is also welcomed by Russian farmers who resent cheap, foreign competition.


  For Harper, the sleeping-bag gambit may simply be a chance to make political mischief and score points at home. As a student of history, he should remember that mischief can get out of control.

Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…

				Prime Minister Stephen Harper, right, and Gen. Thomas Lawson, chief of the defence staff, talk before making an announcement in Ottawa on Tuesday, April 14, 2015. Canada will send 200 military trainers to Ukraine, joining the U.S. and Britain in an international effort to shore up the eastern European country's battered and bloodied combat forces.
			
The Conservative prime minister’s tough-on-crime agenda is on the ropes following a landmark decision Tuesday by Canada’s Supreme Court.
Technically, the government refers to this as a two-year training mission.
But the real reason, as Defence Minister Jason Kenney told reporters, is to send a “clear message” to Putin of Western “determination and resolution.”
He didn’t mention the political reason which, in the run-up to Canada’s fall election, is to paint Harper as a strong leader in a perilous world.
The economy is slowing. With oil prices down, Canada is no longer the international economic star it once was.
And Tuesday, the Supreme Court delivered a body blow to the notion of mandatory minimum sentences, a centrepiece of Harper’s crime policy.
Writing for the majority, Chief Justice Beverley McLachlin noted that in many cases, including the one before the court, a three-year sentence was justified.
Put simply, the court ruled that while laws requiring mandatory minimum sentences are not always unconstitutional, this one is.
The top court has long been a thorn in the government’s side. It has struck down laws that toughened up sentencing, cracked down on prostitution and banned assisted suicide.
It found Harper’s attempts at Senate reform unconstitutional and, in a final insult, ruled that one of his appointments to the Supreme Court itself was illegal.
The Germans have sought a diplomatic solution to the ongoing civil war in Eastern Ukraine as have the French. Even the Americans speak in relatively measured tones. U.S. President Barack Obama has ruled out going to war against nuclear-armed Russia over Ukraine.
But Harper is a consistent hawk. He and his ministers have nothing but praise for the central government in Kyiv. They have nothing but scorn for Putin.
The 200 Canadian soldiers are ostensibly being sent to train the Ukrainian army. They will join 800 American and 75 British military trainers in Western Ukraine.
What is clear is that Harper figures this is good politics. Proportional to its population, Canada is committing far more soldiers than either Britain or the U.S. That’s not enough to take on the Russian army. But it will please the politically important, pro-Kyiv Ukrainian-Canadian lobby
Liberal leader Justin Trudeau says he is on side with the deployment.
Interestingly, the New Democrats — who in the past have supported Ottawa wholeheartedly on Ukraine — are not.
Party leader Tom Mulcair pointed out that this mission has been authorized by neither Parliament nor NATO. He also said the adventure poses “grave danger” to Canadian troops.
Kenney was asked that Tuesday. He said none of the Canadian military advisers will be armed. He said that most of them will be so close to Ukraine’s western border that they could easily skedaddle into Poland.
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…

				Nadiya Savchenko, 33, was among the first women admitted to Ukraine's Air Force Academy. When the "Euromaidan" revolution broke out in 2013, she joined its self-defence squad, breaking a taboo against women playing active roles in fighting the country's security forces.
			
“Until the day I return to Ukraine or until the last day of my life in Russia … I will not back down.”
After a month on hunger strike in a Russian prison cell, Nadiya Savchenko is staring death in the face.
But the Ukrainian fashion designer turned front-line fighter is meeting it — and Moscow’s ire — with true grit that has made her Ukraine’s “Joan of Arc,” even as Russia denounces her as a “Daughter of the Devil” and charges her as an accomplice to the murder of two journalists during fighting in eastern Ukraine.
“I have given my word,” she wrote in a defiant letter from a Moscow jail, released Monday by her lawyer. “Until the day I return to Ukraine or until the last day of my life in Russia … I will not back down.”
This week, Kyiv’s parliament called on the leaders of Russia, Germany and France to help free her.
Since her capture by pro-Russian separatists in the combat zone last July, Savchenko has become the heroine of an ongoing drama that has reached a global audience.
Now 33, she rose from impoverished student to graduate of Ukraine’s prestigious Air Force Academy, newly named MP and member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. She has shattered sexist stereotypes to become a poster girl for Ukraine’s battle with its giant neighbour, which has seized the Crimean Peninsula and is now eyeing Ukraine’s turbulent eastern region.
But Savchenko is also at the centre of a deeply polarized Cold War redux, and her fate goes beyond the borders of Russia and Ukraine.
He believes Savchenko will be top of mind at a peace summit on the Ukraine conflict in Astana, Kazakhstan, later this month.
Supporters hope it’s not too late. Now in solitary confinement in Moscow, Savchenko is surviving on sips of water, with sporadic infusions of glucose through an intravenous drip. She agreed to the treatment to avoid the “torture” of force feeding, said her sister Vera, in an interview through a translator.
Close friends, the sisters were together before Nadiya was seized on July 17 during the rescue of some wounded Ukrainian soldiers near the front line. Nadiya was on a training mission in eastern Ukraine after taking a leave from the army, which refused to send female soldiers into combat. Vera had volunteered to drive her to the front, and then joined in the rescue when ambulances “were afraid to come to the area.”
While transporting injured soldiers during a raging battle, Vera said, she lost contact with Nadiya and feared she was dead. But the next day, Nadiya’s cellphone was answered “by a man from the separatist movement who screamed and yelled curses and threats.”
Believing her sister was alive, Vera launched talks with the separatists for a prisoner swap. But the effort failed, and she later learned from a letter written from jail that Nadiya had been transported over the border to Voronezh, in southern Russia: “They put a balaclava over her head and changed cars six times.”
Russian authorities insist that Savchenko sneaked over the border illegally, but she and her family contend she was kidnapped. “They didn’t expect that this case would cause such a scandal,” Feygin said.
Savchenko was questioned by Russian officials and charged with responsibility for the mortar attack that killed Igor Kornelyuk and Anton Voloshin, two Russian TV journalists who were on a reporting trip in the area. She has consistently denied the charge, and her lawyers say it was “impossible” because she was captured well before the two died. “The Russian case is empty,” Feygin maintains.
But childhood holiday trips to Crimea had sparked a love of flying, and she hankered to become a jet pilot. With the Air Force Academy closed to women in the early 2000s, she joined the low-paying Ukrainian army.
After an assignment in Iraq, she finally got her wish, graduating as one of only two women newly admitted to the air academy. When the revolution dubbed “Euromaidan” broke out in 2013, she joined its self-defence squad, breaking a taboo against women playing active roles in fighting the security forces. And when the ouster of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych led to Russia’s seizure of Crimea and backing for pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine, she rejected the army’s stand on keeping women away from the front.
Savchenko is the most famous symbol of Ukraine’s female fighters. But she is one of dozens of women who have thrown off the restraints of a male-dominated society since the Euromaidan movement began.
“She is a symbol in some ways, but not really for feminism,” said sociologist Tamara Martsenyuk of the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, now a visiting scholar at the University of Toronto. “She could be perceived as a woman suffering because of Ukraine’s relations with Russia.”
Women have been marginalized in the military and in politics, she points out. Yulia Tymoshenko, whose party put Savchenko on its electoral list, is typical of the image of a successful Ukrainian woman, Martsenyuk adds: “She’s wealthy, beautiful, married, has children and is also a politician.” In the military, women have low-status, low-paying support jobs and little hope of advancement. And in marriage, working women “still come home and cook the dinner.”
If Savchenko is released, she could be on the front line of change. But as the hunger strike continues, her fate is uncertain.
“She rejects all demands and pleas for her to end her hunger strike and says she will fast to the bitter end,” Russian human rights campaigner Anna Karetnikova told Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. “She’s chosen her path and doesn’t want to hear any advice.”
Emotions can run high when helping the k…
Proper soil preparation in the garden is…
