UPDATE: Windows were shattered and homes shaken in Donetsk after a huge blast rocked the vicinity of a city chemical plant
A Ukrainian MP praised pro-Kiev forces for hitting a target – but said they “don’t know what they hit.”
The video, which was shot on a cell phone, shows a mushroom cloud emerging from the explosion and the resulting shockwave.
The video was filmed by a man inside his house, and the shockwave from the blast broke the window he was filming out of.

Russian media reports the epicenter of the explosion was in the Kuibyshev district of Donetsk, Ukraine, the site of the most intense fighting between rebels who want Eastern Ukraine to join Russia and the Western-backed Ukrainian government.

The media also said the explosion could be seen and felt for “tens of kilometers.”

An image from a NATO satellite revealed a mushroom cloud linked to the explosion, according to Zero Hedge.

We pointed out the possibility of tactical nukes being deployed in Ukraine back in March.

Ukraine has been in turmoil since at least Nov
2013 when a series of protests funded by billionaire activist George Soros led to the overthrow of the country’s elected leaders and the installation of politicians handpicked by the U.S
State Department.

Soros became actively involved in the politics of Eastern Europe and Central Asia after the collapse of the Soviet Union, using multiple non-government organizations with ties to the CIA to spark color revolutions in former Soviet countries.

“Billionaire investor/activist George Soros has a giant footprint in Ukraine,” wrote journalist William F
Jasper
“Similar to his operations in dozens of other nations, he has, over the past couple of decades, poured tens of millions of dollars into Ukrainian non-governmental organizations (NGOs), ostensibly to assist them in transforming their country into a more ‘open’ and ‘democratic’ society.”

“First on Ukraine, one of the things that many people recognized about you was that you during the revolutions of 1989 funded a lot of dissident activities, civil society groups in eastern Europe and Poland, the Czech Republic
Are you doing similar things in Ukraine?” Zakaria asked Soros.

“Well, I set up a foundation in Ukraine before Ukraine became independent of Russia, and the foundation has been functioning ever since and played an important part in events now,” Soros responded.
				
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
George Soros told CNN’s Fareed Zakaria over the weekend he is responsible for establishing a foundation in Ukraine that ultimately contributed to the overthrow of the country’s elected leader and the installation of a junta handpicked by the State Department.
“First on Ukraine, one of the things that many people recognized about you was that you during the revolutions of 1989 funded a lot of dissident activities, civil society groups in eastern Europe and Poland, the Czech Republic
Are you doing similar things in Ukraine?” Zakaria asked Soros.
“Well, I set up a foundation in Ukraine before Ukraine became independent of Russia
And the foundation has been functioning ever since and played an important part in events now,” Soros responded.
It is well-known, although forbidden for the establishment media to mention, that Soros worked closely with USAID, the National Endowment for Democracy (now doing work formerly assigned to the CIA), the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs, the Freedom House, and the Albert Einstein Institute to initiate a series of color revolutions in Eastern Europe and Central Asia following the engineered collapse of the Soviet Union.

“Many of the participants in Kiev’s ‘EuroMaidan’ demonstrations were members of Soros-funded NGOs and/or were trained by the same NGOs in the many workshops and conferences sponsored by Soros’ International Renaissance Foundation (IRF), and his various Open Society institutes and foundations
The IRF, founded and funded by Soros, boasts that it has given ‘more than any other donor organization’ to ‘democratic transformation’ of Ukraine,” writes William F
Jasper.

This transformation led to fascist ultra-nationalists controlling Ukraine’s security services
In April it was announced Andriy Parubiy and other coup leaders were working with the FBI and CIA to defeat and murder separatists opposed to the junta government installed by Victoria Nuland and the State Department
Parubiy is the founder of a national socialist party in Ukraine and currently the boss of the country’s National Security and Defense Council.

Now that the billionaire “chocolate king” Petro Poroshenko is president of Ukraine, the effort to wipe out all opposition in eastern Ukraine will pick up steam
Poroshenko is a near perfect choice for the globalists and EU apparatchiks
He sat on the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine and collaborated with the IMF, Wall Street and the European Commission.

Poroshenko and the February coup leaders are now killing civilians in Donetsk as the effort continues to dislodge and eradicate “pro-Russian militants” and “terrorists,” i.e., armed resistance fighters going up against Right Sector enforcers possibly accompanied by American mercenaries with the help of the CIA
Civilians are also victims in “rebel”-held Slovyansk and neighboring Kramatorsk as retaliation against resistance to the junta in Kyiv intensifies.

The military response with its overly fascist character, including the terrorist torching of a trade union building in Odessa by “pro-regime rioters” (i.e., Right Sector paramilitaries), can be directly attributed to the activism of George Soros and the hands-on approach of the U.S
State Department, various NGOs (which are, in fact, government and Wall Street fronts), and USAID, NED, and the malattributed “Freedom House,” etc.

Following the murder and expulsion of those opposed to the IMF lording over the government and the people of Ukraine, Russia can expect further provocation, especially now that it has stepped away from supporting the resistance
The financial elite and their EU collaborators are determined to diminish and ultimately eliminate any challenge by Russia and the BRICS as these countries move to counter the neoliberal financial agenda.

“The buildup of NATO air and ground forces along the borders of Russia in eastern Europe and President Barack Obama’s American power-influencing trip to Asia have a single purpose,” Wayne Madsen wrote earlier this month
“The seen and unseen forces who dictate policy to their political puppets in Washington, London, Paris, Brussels, Berlin, and other vassal capital cities have decided to smash BRICS – the emergent financial power bloc encompassing Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa.”
				
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
“We will continue to take the approach that we have taken in the past, which is to ratchet up the pressure on Russia,” Obama said during a news conference in New Delhi
“And I will look at all additional options that are available to us, short of military confrontation, and try to address this issue.”
Although the source of the shelling is in dispute, the U.S
government and the corporate media uniformly blame Russia and militias opposed to the coup government in Kiev.
“We are deeply concerned about the latest break in the ceasefire and the aggression that these separatists – with Russian backing, Russian equipment, Russian financing, Russian training and Russian troops – are conducting,” Obama added.
Infowars.com reported at the time:

The establishment media in the United States claims the photographs show Russian Federation troops
The State Department pawned the photos off as evidence despite the fact the authenticity of the photographs could not be independently verified
State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said on Monday the images prove Russian troops are in Ukraine
“So these are just further evidence of the connection between Russia and the armed militants,” she said.
“Two days after the New York Times led its editions with a one-sided article about photos supposedly proving that Russian special forces were behind the popular uprisings in eastern Ukraine, the Times published what you might call a modified, limited retraction.” Robert Parry wrote on April 23.

NATO also produced satellite photos it said proved Russian troops were in eastern Ukraine
In response to the allegation, the General Staff of the Russian Army said the photos were taken in August 2013 during military drills on the border.

While the U.S
and the establishment media insist Russia is behind the militias opposing Ukrainian military action in eastern Ukraine, they are ignoring evidence U.S
troops or American contractors are on the ground assisting the Ukrainian military.

The Poroshenko government has been thus far unable to eliminate militias fighting against the coup occupation and the United States has signaled it will help them in the effort.

A video posted on Youtube following the shelling shows an uniformed man confronted by a Ukrainian journalist.

“Out my face, out my face!” the man says in American English.

The head of U.S
Army Europe Lt
Gen Ben Hodges said during a visit to Kiev on Wednesday U.S
soldiers will deploy to Ukraine as part of a training effort of four companies of the Ukrainian National Guard.

Pentagon spokeswoman Lt
Col
Vanessa Hillman told Defense News the training is part of a U.S
State Department initiative “to assist Ukraine in strengthening its law enforcement capabilities, conduct internal defense, and maintain rule of law.”

“By ‘rule of law,’ they mean getting the Ukrainian military, which is ratcheting up its conscription, ready to crush eastern rebels, who have been demanding reforms after the new government imposed a series of harsh restrictions on the ethnic Russian east,” Jason Ditz wrote on Tuesday.

“So far, the plans are to put the troops in Lviv, in the far west, which should keep the US forces from getting too directly into the nation’s civil war, though officials are saying this is just the ‘first step in further training,’ which means more operations could happen, putting troops closer to the frontlines.”

In July, Air Force Gen
Philip M
Breedlove, the Supreme Allied Commander of NATO’s Allied Command Operations, announced the United States will send troops “to help respond to Russian aggression in Ukraine.”

In April, a former U.S
diplomat and member of the Council on Foreign Relations, James Jeffrey, called for U.S
ground troops to be sent to Ukraine.

“The best way to send Putin a tough message and possibly deflect a Russian campaign against more vulnerable NATO states is to back up our commitment to the sanctity of NATO territory with ground troops, the only military deployment that can make such commitments unequivocal,” Jeffrey wrote for The Washington Post.
				
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
 Is this true? It is not
It is fiction
It is a big lie
It is a specious claim, an absurd claim, a ridiculous claim, an unreal claim
Russia and Russians have been involved in certain respects in Ukraine, but by no sensible stretch of the imagination can such involvements be termed aggression
If there were an actual war aggression, it could not be hidden because the scope of a typical war aggression is very large
The photographic evidence for it would be overwhelming
No such evidence has been provided by Russia’s accusers
Even more importantly, it would have to be shown that the attack was an unprovoked offensive attack, and not a defensive operation
This too has not been proven by Russia’s accusers.
My concern here is the fiction being propagated
It borders on madness
It plays into the hands of the worst kinds of warmongers
It blinds everyone concerned
It is irrational
It establishes an aura of public lies and myths that results in great mischief and worse
It is producing awful results that can become far worse
The lie happens to revolve around demonizing Russia but my purpose is not to choose sides in the Ukrainian-Russian problems but to keep the U.S
out of the matter
It is to defang the lie.
What do actual war aggressions look like? Below are some notable examples
It’s a quick brush treatment based on sources easy to find
I haven’t consulted military histories to get precise figures
We do not need pinpoint accuracy to get the main idea, which is that war aggressions are large affairs, and the role of Russia in Ukraine cannot possibly qualify
It will be immediately apparent to any rational observer that Russian involvement in Ukraine, whatever it is or has been, doesn’t even remotely resemble an attack on Ukraine or the kind of attack in force that defines real war aggressions.
North Korea attacked South Korea
On June 24, 1950, the North Koreans attacked with over 90,000 troops and 150 tanks.” Also, “By mid-1950, North Korean forces numbered between 150,000 and 200,000 troops, organized into 10 infantry divisions, one tank division, and one air force division, with 210 fighter planes and 280 tanks, who captured scheduled objectives and territory, among them Kaesong, Chuncheon, Uijeongbu, and Ongjin
Their forces included 274 T-34-85 tanks, some 150 Yak fighters, 110 attack bombers, 200 artillery pieces, 78 Yak trainers, and 35 reconnaissance aircraft.”

Germany attacked Poland from the north, south and west in September, 1939
“On September 1, 1939, Germany invaded Poland
The Polish army was defeated within weeks of the invasion
From East Prussia and Germany in the north and Silesia and Slovakia in the south, German units, with more than 2,000 tanks and over 1,000 planes, broke through Polish defenses along the border and advanced on Warsaw in a massive encirclement attack.” Another source says that 2,315 planes were assigned to the operation: “Aircraft played a major role in the campaign
Bombers also attacked cities, causing huge losses amongst the civilian population through terror bombing and strafing
The Luftwaffe forces consisted of 1,180 fighters, 290 Ju 87 Stuka dive bombers, 1,100 conventional bombers (mainly Heinkel He 111s and Dornier Do 17s), and an assortment of 550 transport and 350 reconnaissance aircraft.[44][45] In total, Germany had close to 4,000 aircraft, most of them modern
A force of 2,315 aircraft was assigned to [Operation Fall] Weiss.”

The United States attacked Iraq on March on March 19, 2003
Iraq made no armed attack on the U.S
This was a genuine U.S
war aggression
“Four countries participated with troops during the initial invasion phase, which lasted from 19 March to 9 April 2003
These were the United States (148,000), United Kingdom (45,000), Australia (2,000), and Poland (194).” Also, “A U.S
Central Command, Combined Forces Air Component Commander report, indicated that, as of 30 April 2003, there were a total of 466,985 U.S
personnel deployed for Operation Iraqi Freedom
This included USAF, 54,955; USAF Reserve, 2,084; Air National Guard, 7,207; USMC, 74,405; USMC Reserve, 9,501; USN, 61,296 (681 are members of the U.S
Coast Guard); USN Reserve, 2,056; and US Army, 233,342; US Army Reserve, 10,683; and Army National Guard, 8,866.”

The scope of this war aggression, like that of North Korea and Germany, was huge
Aggressive wars are big events
A state does not usually launch an aggression unless it intends to win and to win typically requires substantial forces unless the opponent is very much smaller
We will see that even against Panama, the U.S
used a lot of manpower.

In addition, the 2003 attack on Iraq was preceded by bombing against Iraq air defenses during 2001-2002 and by CIA special forces infiltration
“CIA Special Activities Division (SAD) Paramilitary teams entered Iraq in July 2002 before the 2003 invasion
Once on the ground they prepared for the subsequent arrival of US military forces
SAD teams then combined with US Army Special Forces to organize the Kurdish Peshmerga.”

In 2011, NATO attacked Libya
Libya had made no armed attack on NATO countries
This war aggression has been termed a “military intervention” in the wikipedia article
This war involved an air and missile campaign, naval forces and a naval blockade, CIA operatives and British and French special forces on the ground
“Nato aircraft – piloted by the US, France and UK – flew around 18,000 armed sorties during the brief campaign, firing 7,600 missiles
A tiny proportion of these armed missions – 250 in total – were flown by drones
US Predators flew 145 strike sorties, according to a Department of Defense briefing published in October 2011.”

The NATO forces that attacked Libya were substantial
Over 212 aircraft were involved from non-U.S
sources
The numbers of U.S
aircraft do not appear in the wikipedia article: “The United States deployed a naval force of 11 ships, including the amphibious assault ship USS Kearsarge, the amphibious transport dock USS Ponce, the guided-missile destroyers USS Barry and USS Stout, the nuclear attack submarines USS Providence and USS Scranton, the cruise missile submarine USS Florida and the amphibious command ship USS Mount Whitney.[141][142][143] Additionally, A-10 ground-attack aircraft, B-2 stealth bombers, AV-8B Harrier II jump-jets, EA-18G Growler electronic warfare aircraft, and both F-15E[144] and F-16 fighters were involved in action over Libya.[145] U-2 reconnaissance aircraft were stationed on Cyprus.[146] On 18 March, two AC-130Us arrived at RAF Mildenhall as well as additional tanker aircraft.[citation needed] On 24 March 2 E-8Cs operated from Naval Station Rota Spain, which indicated an increase of ground attacks.[citation needed] An undisclosed number of CIA operatives were said to be in Libya to gather intelligence for airstrikes and make contacts with rebels.[147] The US also used MQ-1 Predator UAVs to strike targets in Libya on 23 April.”

Other naval forces were also involved
Again, without researching exact numbers of bombs dropped, missiles launched, and so on, by no stretch of the imagination can Russian involvement in Ukraine be compared even to this Libyan “military intervention”.

Finally, there is one more recent U.S
invasion that is all but forgotten
The U.S
attacked Panama on December 20, 1989
Panama had not attacked the U.S
What was the scope of this aggression?

“The military incursion into Panama began on 20 December 1989, at 1:00 a.m
local time
The operation involved 27,684 U.S
troops and over 300 aircraft, including C-130 Hercules tactical transports flown by the 317th Tactical Airlift Wing (which was equipped with the Adverse Weather Aerial Delivery System or AWADS) and 314th Tactical Airlift Wing, AC-130 Spectre gunship, OA-37B Dragonfly observation and attack aircraft, C-141 Starlifter and C-5 Galaxy strategic transports, F-117A Nighthawk stealth aircraft flown by the 37th Tactical Fighter Wing, and AH-64 Apache attack helicopter.”

War aggressions involve unprovoked attacks with massed forces of substantial size
They are quite often preceded by political issues, demands and sometimes by military clashes
The attacks are clear and unambiguous
None of these characteristics occur with Ukraine and Russia
The ways in which the conflict arose is quite different
Russia hadn’t been making demands on Ukraine as Germany was making on Poland, or as the U.S
was making on Iraq.

Beyond noting the size and scope of actual war aggressions such as the sample provided above, the moral element needs to be considered in order to show that an invasion is an aggression and not done in self-defense
The U.S
justifications in the Panama case are every bit as flimsy as those in the Iraq and Libya cases.

“The official U.S
justification for the invasion was articulated by President George H
W
Bush on the morning of 20 December 1989, a few hours after the start of the operation
Bush listed four reasons for the invasion:[20]

“Safeguarding the lives of U.S
citizens in Panama
In his statement, Bush claimed that Noriega had declared that a state of war existed between the U.S
and Panama and that he threatened the lives of the approximately 35,000 U.S
citizens living there
There had been numerous clashes between U.S
and Panamanian forces; one U.S
Marine had been killed a few days earlier.

“Combating drug trafficking
Panama had become a center for drug money laundering and a transit point for drug trafficking to the U.S
and Europe.

“Protecting the integrity of the Torrijos–Carter Treaties
Members of Congress and others in the U.S
political establishment claimed that Noriega threatened the neutrality of the Panama Canal and that the U.S
had the right under the treaties to intervene militarily to protect the canal.

But, if some defender of the U.S
chooses to accept one or more of these justifications in order to say that the U.S
invasion of Panama was not an aggression, then by the same token, that defender cannot say that Russian activity in eastern Ukraine is aggression
Russia can say with some justification that it is defending the lives of ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine from the bombardments and attacks by Ukrainian forces from the west
Russia is providing a sanctuary for many thousands of refugees
Russia can claim that it is defending democracy, self-determination and human rights in eastern Ukraine.

This entire discussion of aggression and its characteristics has made no mention of the U.S
meddling in Ukraine that helped bring down a government and then helped a new and aggressive government to take office
The U.S
engaged in subversion
Russia has likewise been accused of subversion in Ukraine
Subversion is not aggression
Subversion doesn’t involve armed attacks
It uses different methods to transform, alter or replace the social-political system
Subversion is a different matter and more difficult to assess, especially when two major states like the U.S
and Russia are involved
It is beyond the scope of this blog.

My main concern is the idea that Russia has engaged in aggression
My concern is with documents like this one titled “Preserving Ukraine’s Independence, Resisting Russian Aggression: What the United States and NATO Must Do.” This report calls for substantial U.S
intervention in Ukraine
It is put out by 8 men and women with all sorts of Washington and official connections:

Ivo Daalder, President, the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, and former U.S
Permanent Representative to NATO

John Herbst, Director, Dinu Patriciu Eurasia Center, the Atlantic Council, and former U.S
Ambassador to Ukraine

Jan Lodal, Distinguished Fellow and former President, the Atlantic Council, and former Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense

Steven Pifer, Senior Fellow, the Brookings Institution, and former U.S
Ambassador to Ukraine

James Stavridis, Member of the Board, the Atlantic Council, Dean, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and former Supreme Allied Commander Europe

Strobe Talbott, President, the Brookings Institution, and former Deputy Secretary of State

Charles Wald, Member of the Board, the Atlantic Council, and former Deputy Commander, U.S.
European Command

They have no problem in recommending that the U.S
and NATO arm the Ukrainian forces and become heavily involved in attempting to rescue its economy
They have no problem in pointing the finger of guilt at Russia, and no problem in speaking of Russian aggression
Their presumption of Russian aggression leads them to call for “military support to deter further aggression”.

The U.S
government should no more involve America in Ukraine over Russia’s role than the Kremlin should have hypothetically involved Russia in Panama over the role of the U.S
Big nuclear powers shouldn’t be confronting one another in the backyard of the other
That is no way to face the world’s more serious problems.

Russian aggression is a pretext for increased U.S
involvement in Ukraine, which is a foolish policy that should be avoided no matter what justifications for meddling are concocted
Russian aggression is an imaginary pretext
The learned and experienced men and women who are relying on this argument and making recommendations based on this fiction are not thinking clearly about the meaning of aggression and about supposed Russian aggression
There is no Russian aggression and there hasn’t been any Russian aggression.
				
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
In his weekly column posted Sunday, Dr
Paul blamed western interventionism for the death and destruction in Ukraine’s ongoing civil war.
“Looking back at the events that led to the overthrow it is clear that without foreign intervention Ukraine would not be in its current, seemingly hopeless situation,” he wrote
“By the end of 2013 [before the coup], Ukraine’s economy was in ruins
The government was desperate for an economic bailout and then-president Yanukovych first looked west to the U.S
and EU before deciding to accept an offer of help from Russia.”
That led to division within the country, but as Dr
Paul points out, if it wasn’t for western intervention, the problem may have solved itself eventually instead of escalating into a full-blown civil war.
“The protests at the end of 2013 grew more dramatic and violent and soon a steady stream of U.S
and EU politicians were openly participating, as protesters called for the overthrow of the Ukrainian government,” Dr
Paul added
“Senator John McCain made several visits to Kiev and even addressed the crowd to encourage them.”

“Imagine if a foreign leader like Putin or Assad came to Washington to encourage protesters to overthrow the Obama administration!”

The protests, which were funded by billionaire activist George Soros, ultimately led to the overthrow of the government and the installation of politicians handpicked by the U.S
State Department.

Soros, who actively influences the politics of Russia-linked countries through various front groups, admitted his involvement in Ukraine during an interview with CNN’s Fareed Zakaria.

“First on Ukraine, one of the things that many people recognized about you was that you during the revolutions of 1989 funded a lot of dissident activities, civil society groups in eastern Europe and Poland, the Czech Republic
Are you doing similar things in Ukraine?” Zakaria asked Soros.

“Well, I set up a foundation in Ukraine before Ukraine became independent of Russia, and the foundation has been functioning ever since and played an important part in events now,” Soros responded.

Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
The United States military is “conducting classes on war-fighting functions” as “part of our ongoing efforts to help sustain Ukraine’s defense and internal security operations,” the Pentagon explained last week when U.S
troops arrived from Italy.
“American commandos, numbering 290, will come to Yavoriv training ground, Lviv region, on April 20
This is where a long-term military exercise of 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team of the U.S
Army and combat units of the National Guard will be held,” Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov announced on his Facebook page in late March.

Biden’s son, Hunter, leads the legal team of Burisma Holdings, the largest natural gas producer in Ukraine.

The former president of Ukraine, Aleksandr Turchinov, established the Guard in March, 2014 after the Maidan coup supported by the U.S
State Department in February overthrew the elected leader of the country.

Ukrainian historian Vladimir Skachko has characterized the National Guard as the “legalization of neo-Nazi and neo-fascist batons” who are used to antagonize the Russian speaking population.

Soon after the coup, ultra nationalist paramilitary forces were merged with a reorganized National Guard
Andriy Parubiy, who founded the Social-National Party of Ukraine in 1991, said his Maidan “self-defense forces” would be sent to participate in an “anti-terrorist operation” targeting Ukrainians in the east of the country opposed to the Kiev regime.

Other ultra nationalist groups, including Patriot of Ukraine, Right Sector and White Hammer, are included in the conflict.

Patrick Martin writes “that the paramilitary units, most of them created by billionaire oligarchs who financed and recruited fascist and neo-Nazi volunteers, may be used for suppression of popular protests within the government-controlled portion of Ukraine, in addition to joining the battle lines in eastern Ukraine if fighting breaks out again with pro-Russian separatists.”

The Azov Battalion will presumably work with the 173rd Airborne Brigade during the exercises
The battalion, funded by oligarch Ihor Kolomoyskyi, reports directly to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and is a member of the National Guard
Described as “far-right” by Reuters, the battalion holds a fascist, ultra nationalist ideology and openly uses Nazi symbols and emblems.

Amnesty International claims Azov and other nationalist paramilitary groups are guilty of war crimes
Members of the Aidar battalion backed by Kolomoyskyi “have been involved in widespread abuses, including abductions, unlawful detention, ill-treatment, theft, extortion, and possible executions,” Amnesty said last September.

Newsweek characterized the alleged abuse as “ISIS-style” war crimes after Kiev-based news network Pravilnoe TV talked to the mother of a victim in Donetsk who said she had received her son’s head in a wooden box in the post.
				
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
Andriy Parubiy, the National Security and Defense Council boss of the junta in Kyiv, announced on Sunday the Ukrainian military will expand the “active stage of the operation in towns where extremists and terrorists are carrying out illegal activities.” 
The renewed effort to assert control and defeat anti-junta activists and paramilitaries in Donetsk, Sloviansk, Kramatorsk, Kostyantynivk and other towns in eastern Ukraine coincides with news the CIA and FBI will work with the regime to put down popular uprisings against the government in Kyiv
On Monday, coup Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said the failure of police in Odessa, where violence claimed the lives of dozens of people over the last few days, has resulted in the formation of “Kiev-1,” a paramilitary comprised of “civil activists” who previously worked with the fascist Right Sector and Svoboda to overthrow Ukraine’s elected president in February
National Security and Defense Council boss Parubiy was the founder of the Social National Party of Ukraine, a fascist political party fashioned after the Nazis
It became Svoboda, a nationalist party led by Oleh Tyahnybok, a prominent member of the Verkhovna Rada, the Ukrainian Parliament


The latest move by the junta in Kyiv and the participation of the CIA and the FBI in military activity adds a new urgency to the crisis
Since the failure of Geneva agreement last month, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and the United States are preparing for the possibility of war between NATO and Russia


“After 20 years in which it was almost unimaginable, it seems like a major war in Europe, with shots potentially being fired between Russia and NATO, is once again a possibility,” Der Spiegel opined prior to the latest developments and the move against activists in eastern Ukraine


“Imagine a possible energy war, where Russia basically cuts off gas for Europe (that could spill over more broadly if things go badly)
Or even more worrisome, a shooting war between the East and the West,” writes Chris Martenson for PeakProsperity


“For those living in Europe who are exposed to the possible fallout that would result from the loss of supplies of Russian energy, the time to begin preparing is right now
As we say often on this site, you’d much rather be a year early than a day late in your preparations.” 

On Monday, Russia warned that the situation in Ukraine may lead to an escalation of conflicts throughout Europe


“We are convinced that, in case of the continuation of lawlessness in Ukraine, the situation there may escalate into a serious threat to regional peace and security, and lead to further growth of cross-national and interethnic contradictions and conflicts in Ukraine and throughout Europe,” the Russian Foreign Ministry said, according to RIA Novosti


The Russian Presidential Human Rights Council also called on the United Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in Europe (OSCE) to pressure Ukraine into providing foreign humanitarian missions access to the regions affected by violence in order to provide medical and psychological assistance to victims.

Characterized as a “last ditch effort to head off a wider confrontation,” Didier Burkhalter, the chairman of the OSCE, is expected in Moscow on Wednesday as calls rise for the group to mediate the growing crisis between the junta in Kyiv and its opposition in eastern Ukraine
Burkhalter’s mission is undermined by the military operation by the junta and the participation of the CIA and the FBI

				
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
“290 U.S
paratroopers will arrive on April 20 at the Yavoriv military zone” in the western Ukrainian region of Lviv, near the Polish border, Avakov wrote on his Facebook page
300 soldiers from the U.S
173rd Airborne Brigade, based in Italy, will help train the troops in three waves, each lasting eight weeks, and then conduct joint war games after training is completed.
The mission, which is designed to teach soldiers in the battalions first aid, battlefield tactics and how to defend against being hit by mortar fire and missiles, was originally delayed in March because of fears that it would undermine an already shaky ceasefire and the Minsk II agreement that led to it.
While fighting across eastern Ukraine has not stopped completely, it has slowed down considerably from the days leading up to the signing of the agreement on Feb
12
The ceasefire did not, however, prevent the pro-Russian rebels from capturing the strategic town of Debaltseve on Feb
18, three days after the ceasefire had supposedly taken effect.
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
The basis for the training mission, per the press release, is to further “ongoing efforts to help sustain Ukraine’s defense and internal security operations
In particular, the training will help the Ukraine government develop its National Guard to conduct internal defense operations.”

As Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Victoria Nuland herself pointed out before Congress, the US does not have a defense treaty with Ukraine making the act of sending in troops to train Ukraine forces seemingly inappropriate if not openly provocative to Russia
Or maybe that’s the point?

The government in Kiev is struggling to maintain order and has been jailing journalists and others for opposing the draft and the continued war with separatists in the east
The government also faces an increasing threat from neofascist militias known as “volunteers” that it once empowered
The militias have become antagonistic of the government and threatened to overthrow it for failing to crush the separatists.

President Poroshenko’s attempts to consolidate power have been made easier by a wave of apparent suicides by former officials of overthrown President Viktor Yanukovich
Whether a weakened opposition is enough to help him fend off disaster remains to be seen as the Ukrainian economy poses just as much of a threat to his rule as the neofascist militias
Yesterday Ukraine’s finance minister warned that Ukraine could be forced into defaulting on its debts if there was not a restructuring soon.

Will US military involvement make the situation for Ukraine better or worse?
				
Subscribe to the Underground Insider for Exclusive Content, Breaking News, Messages from Alex and More...

	    	Receive the INFOWARS underground insider!
	    	
	    
