WASHINGTON –  Usama bin Laden (search ) made his first televised appearance in more than a year Friday in which he admitted for the first time ordering the Sept
11 attacks and accused President Bush of "misleading" the American people.
Injecting himself into the campaign four days ahead of the presidential election, bin Laden said the United States can avoid another Sept
11-style attack if it stops threatening the security of Muslims.
In the portion of the tape that was broadcast, the Al Qaeda (search) leader refrained from directly warning of new attacks, although he said "there are still reasons to repeat what happened."
"Your security is not in the hands of Kerry, Bush or Al Qaeda
Your security is in your own hands," bin Laden said, referring to the president and his Democratic opponent
"Any state that does not mess with our security, has naturally guaranteed its own security."
Admitting for the first time that he ordered the Sept
11 attacks, bin Laden said he did so because of injustices against the Lebanese and Palestinians by Israel and the United States.
In what appeared to be conciliatory language, bin Laden said he wanted to explain why he ordered the airline hijackings that hit the World Trade Center (search) and the Pentagon so Americans would know how to act to prevent another attack.
"To the American people, my talk is to you about the best way to avoid another Manhattan," he said
"I tell you: Security is an important element of human life and free people do not give up their security."
After the video was aired, President Bush said that "Americans will not be intimidated" by bin Laden
Sen
John Kerry criticized Bush for failing to capture bin Laden earlier and said that "I can run a more effective war on terror."
The political impact of the tape could cut both ways
It bolsters Bush's argument that the world is a dangerous place and plays to his strength as commander in chief in fighting the war on terror, but it also underscores that his administration has failed to capture or kill America's No
1 enemy more than three years after the terror attacks on New York and Washington.
It was the first footage in more than a year of the fugitive Al Qaeda leader, thought to be hiding in the mountains along the Pakistan-Afghanistan border
The video, broadcast on Al-Jazeera television, showed bin Laden with a long, gray beard, wearing traditional white robes, a turban and a golden cloak, standing behind a table with papers and in front of a plain, brown curtain.
The Bush administration said it believes the videotape is authentic and was made recently, noting that bin Laden referred to 1,000 U.S
military deaths in Iraq -- which happened in early September.
White House press secretary Scott McClellan said the administration did not plan to raise the nation's threat level for now
The U.S
official said the 18-minute tape -- which carries English subtitles, though not in the portion shown on Al-Jazeera -- lacks an explicit threat and repeats well-worn themes.
Multiple sources told FOX News that the tape is authentic and that it was made recently.
Al-Jazeera, which is based in Qatar, broadcast about seven minutes of the tape
The station's spokesman, Jihad Ali Ballout, said Al-Jazeera aired what was "newsworthy and relevant" and refused to describe the unaired portions, including whether they included any threats
Ballout said the station received the tape Friday but would not say how.
Before the tape was aired, the State Department asked the government of Qatar to discourage Al-Jazeera from broadcasting it, a senior State Department official said.
In the video, bin Laden accused Bush of misleading Americans by saying the attack was carried out because Al Qaeda "hates freedom." The terrorist leader said his followers have left alone countries that do not threaten Muslims.
He said he was first inspired to attack the United States by the 1982 Israeli invasion of Lebanon in which towers and buildings in Beirut were destroyed in the siege of the capital.
"While I was looking at these destroyed towers in Lebanon, it sparked in my mind that the tyrant should be punished with the same and that we should destroy towers in America, so that it tastes what we taste and would be deterred from killing our children and women," he said.
"God knows that it had not occurred to our mind to attack the towers, but after our patience ran out and we saw the injustice and inflexibility of the American-Israeli alliance toward our people in Palestine and Lebanon, this came to my mind," he said.
Bin Laden suggested Bush was slow to react to the Sept
11 attacks, giving the hijackers more time than they expected
At the time of the attacks, the president was listening to schoolchildren in Florida reading a book.
"It never occurred to us that the commander in chief of the American armed forces would leave 50,000 of his citizens in the two towers to face these horrors alone," he said, referring to the number of people who worked at the World Trade Center.
"It appeared to him [Bush] that a little girl's talk about her goat and its butting was more important than the planes and their butting of the skyscrapers
That gave us three times the required time to carry out the operations, thank God," he said.
Excluding the hijackers, the Sept
11 attacks killed 2,749 people at the World Trade Center, 184 at the Pentagon and 40 in Pennsylvania.
In planning the attacks, bin Laden said he told Mohammed Atta, one of the hijackers, that the strikes had to be carried out "within 20 minutes before Bush and his administration noticed."
Bin Laden compared the Bush administration to repressive Arab regimes "in that half of them are ruled by the military and the other half are ruled by the sons of kings and presidents."
He said the resemblance became clear when Bush's father was president and visited Arab countries.
"He wound up being impressed by the royal and military regimes and envied them for staying decades in their positions and embezzling the nation's money with no supervision," bin Laden said.
"He passed on tyranny and oppression to his son, and they called it the Patriot Act, under the pretext of fighting terror
Bush the father did well in placing his sons as governors and did not forget to pass on the expertise in fraud from the leaders of the (Mideast) region to Florida to use it in critical moments."
The image of bin Laden reading a statement was dramatically different from the few other videos of the Al Qaeda leader that have emerged since the Sept
11 attacks.
In the last videotape, issued Sept
10, 2003, bin Laden is seen walking through rocky terrain with his top deputy Ayman al-Zawahri, both carrying automatic rifles
In a taped message issued at the same time, bin Laden praises the "great damage to the enemy" on Sept
11 and mentions five hijackers by name.
In December 2001, the Pentagon released a videotape in which bin Laden is shown at a dinner with associates in Afghanistan on Nov
9, 2001, saying the destruction of the Sept
11 attacks exceeded even his "optimistic" calculations.
But in none of his previous messages, audio or video, did bin Laden directly state that he ordered the attacks.
The last audiotape purportedly from bin Laden came in April
The speaker on the tape, which CIA analysts said likely was the Al Qaeda leader, offered a truce to European nations if they pull troops out of Muslim countries
The tape referred to the March 22 assassination by Israel of Hamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin.
Retired Lt
Col
Bill Cowen, a FOX News military analyst, said bin Laden timed the tape deliberately.
"I think he's just trying to slap the president around a little bit and in my opinion is trying to influence the election," Cowen said.
Cowen said that while the tape showed that the most wanted terrorist was still at large, it also should be seen in another light.
"This tape is also a reminder of how we've decimated the top Al Qaeda leadership," Cowen said
"It took us 20 years to find Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber, right here in the United States."
Michael Moore's (search) "Fahrenheit 9/11" broke records this weekend, becoming the first documentary to debut as Hollywood's top weekend film — but there are holes in the controversial film's story.
For instance, in one often-showed clip, Moore claims that President Bush was on vacation 42 percent of the time during his first several months in office — but that estimation included weekends at Camp David, a common practice for presidents
Without those days figured in, Bush actually spent 13 percent of his time on vacation.
The movie also criticizes Bush for staying inside a Florida classroom full of kids for a full seven minutes after he learned that the country was under attack on Sept
11, 2001.
However, the vice chairman of the Sept
11 commission has said that Bush did the right thing
"Bush made the right decision in remaining calm, in not rushing out of the classroom," said Lee Hamilton, a former Democratic congressman from Indiana.
In "Fahrenheit 9/11" (search) Moore also claims that the White House approved plans for planes to pick up relatives of Usama Bin Laden right after the attacks
But according to terrorism czar Richard Clarke (search), he alone approved the Saudi flights.
In addition, Moore says that the departing Saudis were not properly processed by the FBI when leaving the country
That too is contradicted by the Sept
11 commission, which said the Saudis were properly interviewed.
Finally, Moore shows prominent members of the Taliban visiting Texas, implying that they were invited by then-Governor Bush
The Taliban delegation, however, was invited to Houston by UNOCAL (search), a California energy company.
Moore also doesn't mention that the visit was made with the permission of the Clinton administration, which twice met with Taliban members — in 1997 and 1998.
Click on the video box at the top of this story to watch a report by FOX News' William LaJeunesse.
The crowd that gave Michael Moore's controversial "Fahrenheit 9/11" documentary a standing ovation last night at the Ziegfeld Theater premiere certainly didn't have to be encouraged to show their appreciation
From liberal radio host/writer Al Franken to actor/director Tim Robbins, Moore was in his element.
As much as some might try to marginalize this film as a screed against President George Bush, "F9/11" — as we saw last night — is a tribute to patriotism, to the American sense of duty  —  and at the same time a indictment of stupidity and avarice.
Not so with "F9/11," which instead relies on lots of film footage and actual interviews to make its case against the war in Iraq and tell the story of the intertwining histories of the Bush and bin Laden families.
First, I know you want to know who came to the Ziegfeld, so here is a partial list:
Besides Franken and Robbins, Al Sharpton, Mike Myers, Tony Bennett, Glenn Close, Gretchen Mol (newly married over the weekend to director Todd Williams), Lori Singer, Tony Kushner, "Angela's Ashes" author Frank McCourt, Jill Krementz and Kurt Vonnegut, Lauren Bacall (chatting up a fully refurbished Lauren Hutton), Richard Gere, John McEnroe and Patti Smythe, former U.N
ambassador Richard Holbrooke, Carson Daly, NBC's Jeff Zucker, a very pregnant Rory Kennedy, playwright Israel Horovitz, Macaulay Culkin, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Kyra Sedgwick, Linda Evangelista, Ed Bradley, Tom and Meredith Brokaw, director Barry Levinson, NBC anchor Brian Williams, Vernon Jordan, Eva Mendes, Sandra Bernhard and the always humorous Joy Behar.
Now, unless you've been living under a rock, you know that this movie has been the cause of a lot of trouble
Miramax and Disney have gone to war over it, and "The Passion of the Christ" seems like "Mary Poppins" in retrospect
Before anyone's even seen it, there have been partisan debates over which way Moore may have spun this or that to get a desired effect.
But, really, in the end, not seeing "F9/11" would be like allowing your First Amendment rights to be abrogated, no matter whether you're a Republican or a Democrat.
The film does Bush no favors, that's for sure, but it also finds an unexpectedly poignant and universal groove in the story of Lila Lipscombe, a Flint, Mich., mother who sends her kids into the Army for the opportunities it can provide — just like the commercials say — and lives to regret it.
"F9/11" isn't perfect, and of course, there are leaps of logic sometimes
One set piece is about African-American congressmen and women presenting petitions on the Florida recount, and wondering why there are no senators to support them.
On the other hand, there are more than enough moments that seemed to resonate with the huge Ziegfeld audience.
The most indelible is Bush's reaction to hearing on the morning of Sept
11, 2001, that the first plane had crashed into the World Trade Center.
Bush was reading to a grade-school class in Florida at that moment
Instead of jumping up and leaving, he instead sat in front of the class, with an unfortunate look of confusion, for nearly 11 minutes.
Moore obtained the footage from a teacher at the school who videotaped the morning program
There Bush sits, with no access to his advisers, while New York is being viciously attacked
I guarantee you that no one who sees this film forgets this episode.
More than even "The Passion of the Christ," "F9/11" is going to be a "see it for yourself" movie when it hits theaters on June 25
It simply cannot be missed, and I predict it will be a huge moneymaker.
And that's where Disney's Michael Eisner comes in
Not releasing this film will turn out to be the curse of his career.
When Eisner came into Disney years ago, the studio was at a low point
He turned it around with a revived animation department and comedy hits such as "Pretty Woman" and "Down and Out in Beverly Hills."
But Eisner's short-sightedness on many recent matters has been his undoing
And this last misadventure is one that will follow him right out the doors of the Magic Kingdom.
I have known for some time that Jackson's advisers had come up with a plan under which Jackson's 50 percent ownership of Sony/ATV Music Publishing could be used as leverage in a plan to extricate the beleaguered pop star from his financial straits.
Now, because Sony might be forced to sell off its publishing unit in order to merge with BMG, the likelihood of that scenario stronger than ever.
Recently the proposed merger of the two music giants met with frowns from European regulators who saw the combining of the conglomerates as a huge monopoly
One way out would be for the companies to sell their publishing units in order to win approvals here and abroad for their plan.
In the end, Jackson could wind up owning a merged version of Sony/ATV and BMG Music Publishing.
Sources tell me this is the newest plan on the drawing board and one that would resolve at long last Jackson's huge financial loans and massive debt pertaining to what is commonly known as the Beatles catalogue.
The songs of John Lennon and Paul McCartney are the core of Sony/ATV Music Publishing, but Jackson has used his 50 percent ownership as collateral for over $200 million in loans.
Thanks to the Sony BMG merger, Michael may finally have a way of paying back that loan, plus another $150 million, all to Bank of America
Needless to say, Bank of America execs are probably whistling "We Can Work It Out" to each other.
Earlier, Jackson had hopes of using his stake in Warner/Chappell Music for a similar deal, but that fell through when the owners of Warner Music decided not to sell their publishing company
The third publisher — whom I cannot yet name — would then combine to put Jackson and his publishing adviser, veteran Charles Koppelman, in a unique position.
One problem, I am told, is that Jackson is totally unaware of the daily strategizing by his legal advisers and financiers with regard to Sony/ATV.
He is utterly clueless, in fact, about what really goes on in his financial life
There has been almost no communication for quite some time between him and John Branca, the music attorney who manages to keep track of Michael's Sony situation and hold all the elements together.
And where is Michael? For the last couple of weeks Jackson has been back in Florida, staying in Miami and spending a fortune while the mansion he rented in Beverly Hills sits empty.
The rental agreement on that house runs out on June 30, with Jackson still spending no time at his Neverland Ranch or "in the community of Santa Maria" where his trial is scheduled to begin in September.
Davis' latest hit, the first album by supergroup Velvet Revolver, will be No
1 this week with almost 350,000 copies sold.
The album appears on the RCA label, which came under Davis' purview when he took over BMG North America earlier this year after making his J Records a huge success following his unpleasant easing-out from Arista Records.
The wittily titled album, "Contraband," is a return to regular old rock 'n' roll, with lots of slicing guitars and heavy drums
As a concept, it hearkens back to Asia, the supergroup of the late '80s
As a hit, it's something that every record executive will wish they thought of.
Davis isn't the only one getting hits these days, even though it sure seems like it
Over at Epic Records' Or Music division, Los Lonely Boys are the breakthrough story of the year, jumping from No
26 to No
10
Larry Miller and Michael Caplan really built this little label up from nothing.
Many congrats to them
Now they should sign Maine's hot Vacationland and really show the record business how it's done!
BRIT HUME, HOST: It's an applause line
And in that case, a laughter line for the Democrats in their presidential debates
There you heard it from Howard Dean (search), from Dennis Kucinich (search) and finally, there from Senator Bob Graham (search) of Florida, the flat out statement…definitive statement, no connection between 9-11 and Iraq.
Well, certainly the administration has never claimed a connection, but is it that clear that it is definite there was not? For more on this, we turn now to FOX News foreign affairs analyst, Mansoor Ijaz, who joins us now from Berlin; the man with the best sources we know of anybody on these kinds of issues.
MANSOOR IJAZ, FOX NEWS FOREIGN AFFAIRS ANALYST: Well, Brit, I'll first…I'll say to you that with regard to Howard Dean and Congressman Kucinich, you have to forgive them because they don't know any better
But I was surprised to hear Bob Graham say that since he sat in a senior position on the Senate Intelligence Committee during the course of these events.
The fact of the matter is that as early as 1994, but certainly proof positive as of 1998, the connection between Al Qaeda (search) and Saddam Hussein was very clear
In February and March of 1998, bin Laden's No
2 guy visited Baghdad at the request of the intelligence services of Iraq.
And he was living in Khartoum at the time at the very moment that the Sudanese intelligence chief was begging the FBI in hand written notes that were carried back and forth to come to the Sudan and look at what the data was that they had, who they were dealing with, how bin Laden's people were moving around, which ones were moving where and what they were doing.
There is no and, if's, or but's about the fact that there was a connection between al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein that early.
Now, the real question is what did they do in that two and a half weeks that they sat there and planned and plotted with each other?
We know that exactly six weeks after the meetings took place, a letter came from the FBI to the Sudanese saying we can't help you
We're not allowed to come and look at this stuff
And then six weeks after that, the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania were bombed and the Sudanese Embassy was cased.
So I would say that these people who make that kind of an argument have really no idea what the facts are
Nor do they understand what the mendacity of Saddam was to use al Qaeda for his benefit and his purposes in carrying out terrorist attacks in other parts of the world.
HUME: Well, certainly that makes pretty good circumstantial evidence on the attacks on those embassies
And it does suggest from what you have said that there have been contacts at a high level, important level, between al Qaeda and the Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein
But what about something that would suggest a connection to 9-11, is there evidence there of any consequence?
IJAZ: Absolutely, and now let's take it a step further after the 1998 bombings
We then know there was a training camp called Salman Pak, which we've been able to identify the aircraft that they trained, the hijackers on
We've been able to identify other contacts between Iraqi intelligence services and directly with the 9-11 hijackers.
People would love to shove that evidence under the carpet, but the fact of the matter is that the meetings did take place, planning was going on
The Iraqi diplomatic pouch was the tool of choice to pass al Qaeda's messages around the world in different parts of the world.
There was…we know for a fact that the Philippines' embassy of Iraq in manila was used for purposes of planning what was then a thwarted effort to try and hijack airplanes across the Pacific
We know that the Pakistani…I mean, the Iraqi Embassy in Islamabad was used to facilitate contact between the Taliban, bin Laden's people, and Iraqi senior scientists to collaborate on chemical and biological weapons
I know that for a fact myself that that was going on.
So, there is just no way that anybody can convince me that there is no connection
We have not yet found the forensic tie
That may be true
But to say that there's no connection whatsoever, that is absolutely not true.
HUME: Why is it that the Bush administration, in your view, has not stressed this terrorist connection more? It did for a while, but since the appeal that was made for the U.N
resolutions back last fall, you haven't heard much from the administration on this connection from.
IJAZ: You know, Brit, that's sort of a tough question to answer in one sense
But let me give you my opinion about that
That is, the Bush administration has their hands full trying to solve the problems on the ground in Iraq right now.
They did the best that they could to and try to lay everything out
They tried to make the case to the American people
I think they made a darn good case
And when they executed what they needed to and the evidence was there
The fact is that we found evidence after the war was over that this was going on.
And so for me, it's very clear what was happening
If the Democrats don't want to accept that, they're not going to win office next time if they keep this up, because the American people are too smart to let this go on forever.
Copy: Content and Programming Copyright 2003 Fox News Network, Inc
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Transcription Copyright 2003 eMediaMillWorks, Inc
(f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.), which takes sole responsibility for the accuracy of the transcription
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
No license is granted to the user of this material except for the user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Fox News Network, Inc.'s and eMediaMillWorks, Inc.'s copyrights or other proprietary rights or interests in the material
This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.
The chairman of the federal commission investigating Sept
11 (search) said Wednesday the terrorist attacks could have been prevented.
"As you read the report, you're going to have a pretty clear idea of what wasn't done and what should have been done," he told one television station.
The comments were the first by Kean, former Republican governor of New Jersey, blaming public officials for not anticipating the attacks.
"There are people that, certainly, if I was doing the job, who would certainly not be in the position they were in at the time because they failed," he said.
Kean didn't name names but it has previously been reported that the Bush administration received intelligence warnings that provided hints about Usama bin Laden's (search) intentions before Sept
11.
WASHINGTON –  The Bush administration may have had advanced notice of the Sept
11 terrorist attacks but failed to stop them in order to profit from the destruction, a Democratic congresswoman alleges.
"We know there were numerous warnings of the events to come on September 11
What did this administration know and when did it know it, about the events of September 11? Who else knew, and why did they not warn the innocent people of New York who were needlessly murdered? … What do they have to hide?" asked Democratic Rep
Cynthia McKinney of Georgia, according to The Washington Post. 
A spokeswoman at KPFA94.1 FM in Berkely, Calif., confirmed that McKinney had spoken on air from their studios on March 26
The staff was scrambling to answer reporters' phone calls and to get the audio from that session up on their Web site Friday.
A White House spokesman dismissed the allegations, calling them "ludicrous, baseless views."
In the interview, McKinney asserted that the Bush administration was serving the interests of the Carlyle Group, a Washington-based investment firm that employs several high-ranking former government officials from both parties and counts former President George H.W
Bush as an adviser.  
Georgia Democratic Sen
Zell Miller said at first he thought to write off the comments as "loony," but then decided they were "dangerous and irresponsible."  He also reminded Bush to consider the source.
"I hope President Bush will remember that this is the same congresswoman who during each of his State of the Union addresses - arrives early to get a coveted aisle seat, then leans way over as Bush walks down the aisle, hoping he will give her a kiss for all to see on national TV," Miller said in a statement.
A spokeswoman at the radio station who asked not to be named said she believed that the newspaper had read too much into the congresswoman's comments.
"She was calling for a full investigation into the terrorist attacks
She wasn't trying to implicate the president in any plot," she said.
On Friday, McKinney clarified her remarks, but repeated her assertions that certain corporations were benefiting from its ties to the White House
"I am not aware of any evidence showing that President Bush or members of his administration have personally profited from the attacks of 9-11
A complete investigation might reveal that to be the case," she said  "(W)hat is undeniable is that corporations close to the administration have directly benefited from the increased defense spending arising from the aftermath of Sept
11
The Carlyle Group, DynCorp, and Halliburton certainly stand out as companies close to this administration."
Also in the radio conversation, McKinney took several swipes at the president, accusing him of stealing the 2000 election, and calling his administration "questionable."
SCARBOROUGH, Maine –  A former U.S
Airways ticket agent who issued boarding passes to the terrorists who later hijacked a plane out of Boston on Sept
11, 2001, says he felt guilty afterward.
Atta's demeanor, his angry-looking eyes and the pair's first-class, one-way tickets to Los Angeles made Tuohey think twice.
"I said to myself, 'If this guy doesn't look like an Arab terrorist, then nothing does.' Then I gave myself a mental slap, because in this day and age, it's not nice to say things like this," Tuohey told the Maine Sunday Telegram
"You've checked in hundreds of Arabs and Hindus and Sikhs, and you've never done that
I felt kind of embarrassed."
A few hours later, Tuohey was blaming himself as he watched news reports of the attacks on the World Trade Center.
After leaving Portland on a 6 a.m
flight, Atta and Alomari landed in Boston, where they joined three other hijackers on American Airlines Flight 11 (search), which they crashed into one of the twin towers
Five other hijackers left Boston around the same time and crashed United Airlines Flight 175 (search) into the other tower.
Tuohey, 58, said he felt at least partly responsible in the days following the attacks.
Law enforcement officials believe Atta, mastermind of the Sept
11 attacks, started his day in Portland — about 100 miles from Boston — to avoid having all the hijackers arrive at once at Logan International Airport (search).
"It just sent chills through you
You see his picture in the paper (now)," Tuohey said
"You see more life in that picture than there is in flesh and blood."
After the attacks, Tuohey had a gut feeling the two men were involved
After going home, he was called back to the airport to talk to an FBI agent and picked Atta and Alomari out on a security video without any doubt.
A few weeks later, another investigator came by Tuohey's house and showed him a large number of pictures and asked him to point out the men he had waited on that day.
"I went right to Atta," Tuohey said
"It's like the skull on a poison bottle
There's no mistaking that face."
Mohammed said that when he first began plotting the attacks with terrorist leader Usama bin Laden (search) in 1996, the original scheme involved the hijacking of five commercial airliners on each U.S
coast, 10 planes in total.
After examining interrogation reports, The Associated Press learned that Mohammed said the that, in its final stages, the hijacking plan called for as many as 22 terrorists and four planes in a first wave. A second wave of suicide hijackings was to follow that were to be aided possibly by Al Qaeda allies in southeast Asia, U.S
officials confirmed to Fox News.
The interrogation reports make clear that Mohammed and Al Qaeda were still actively looking to strike U.S., Western and Israeli targets across the world as of this year.
Mohammed was captured in a March 1 raid by Pakistani forces and CIA operatives (search) in Rawalpindi
He is being interrogated by the CIA at an undisclosed location.
Mohammed's interrogations have revealed the planning and training of operatives was extraordinarily meticulous, including how to blend into American society, read telephone yellow pages, and research airline schedules.
Over time, bin Laden scrapped various parts of the Sept
11 plan, including attacks on both coasts and hijacking or bombing some planes in East Asia, Mohammed said that shed new light on the origins and evolution of the plot of Sept
11, 2001.
Addressing one of the questions raised by congressional investigators in their Sept
11 review, Mohammed said he never heard of a Saudi man named Omar al-Bayoumi who provided some rent money and assistance to two hijackers when they arrived in California.
Congressional investigators have suggested Bayoumi could have aided the hijackers or been a Saudi intelligence agent, charges the Saudi government vehemently deny
The FBI has also cast doubt on the theory.
How Much He Aided the Hijackers
Mohammed claims he did not arrange for anyone on U.S
soil to assist hijackers Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi
He said there "were no Al Qaeda operatives or facilitators in the United States to help al-Mihdhar or al-Hazmi settle in the United States," one of the reports state.
Al-Mihdhar and al-Hazmi were on the plane that was flown into the Pentagon.
Mohammed portrays those two hijackers as central to the plot, and even more important than Mohammed Atta, initially thought to be the ringleader
Mohammed said he communicated with al-Hazmi and al-Mihdhar while they were in the United States by using Internet chat software.
Mohammed said al-Hazmi and al-Mihdhar were among the four original operatives bin Laden assigned to him for the plot; those were the only two hijackers whom U.S
authorities were frantically seeking for terrorist ties in the final days before Sept
11.
Terrorism experts say the facts emerging from the interrogation report are quite revealing and give a clearer picture of how Al Qaeda operates.
"This news coming out that the plot was shrunk down is probably from an operational standpoint, they were afraid of the word getting out, leaking out," said Fox News military analyst Ret
Navy Capt
Chuck Nash
"The more people you have involved, the more chance you have of being discovered."
Officials believe Mohammed knows the locations of many of the remaining Al Qaeda leaders
They also say he was active in Al Qaeda's attempts to acquire chemical and biological weapons.
"The downside is this is all six months old now
They're [ Al Qaeda's] trade craft is changing significantly," Brookes told Fox News on Monday
"We need to be very careful in looking toward the future seeing how A Qaeda and other groups are changing their tactics."
Brookes noted that Al Qaeda may be looking to recruit people who wouldn't fit the traditional description of a terrorism -- looking, for example, for recruits from a variety of ethnic groups and countries that aren't known to be anti-American.
"Al Qaeda is changing their tactics so that they can continue to be as lethal as they have bee in the past," Brookes said.
U.S
authorities continue to investigate the many statements Mohammed made
They have been able to corroborate with other captives and evidence much of his account.
Recruiting the Hijackers
Mohammed said the hijacking teams were originally made up of members from different countries where Al Qaeda had recruited, but that later bin Laden chose to use a large group of young Saudi men.
Mohammed learned "there was a large group of Saudi operatives that would be available to participate as the muscle in the plot to hijack planes in the United States."
Saudi Arabia was bin Laden's home, though it revoked his citizenship in the 1990s
Saudis have suggested that bin Laden has been trying to drive a wedge between the United States and their kingdom.
U.S
intelligence has suggested that Saudis were chosen because there were large numbers willing to follow bin Laden and they could more easily get into the United States because of the countries' friendly relations.
Mohammed said some of the original operatives has trouble getting into the United States.
Mohammed said he had worked in 1994 and 1995 in the Philippines with Ramzi Yousef, Abdul Hakim Murad and Wali Khan Amin Shah on the foiled Bojinka plot to blow up 12 Western airliners simultaneously in Asia.
In 1996, he went to meet bin Laden to persuade the Al Qaeda leader "to give him money and operatives so he could hijack 10 planes in the United States and fly them into targets," one of the interrogation reports state.
The first major change to the plans occurred in 1999 when the two Yemeni operatives could not get U.S
visas
Bin Laden offered additional operatives, including a member of his personal security detail
The original two Yemenis were instructed to focus on hijacking planes in East Asia.
Mohammed considered using a scaled-down version of the Bojinka plan that would have bombed commercial airliners, and that he even considered using shoe bombs.
The plot, he said, eventually evolved into hijacking a small number of planes in the United States and East Asia and either having them explode or crash into targets simultaneously.
By 1999, the four original operatives picked for the plot traveled to Afghanistan to train at one of bin Laden's camps
The focus was on specialized commando training, not piloting jets.
A key event in the plot, Mohammed said, was a meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, in January 2000, that included al-Mihdhar, al-Hazmi and other Al Qaeda operatives
The CIA had the meeting monitored by Malaysian security, but it did not realize the significance of the two eventual hijackers until just before the attacks.
In spring 2000, bin Laden canceled the idea for hijackings in East Asia because he thought "it would be too difficult to synchronize" attacks in the United States and Asia.
Mohammed reached out to an Al Qaeda linked group in southeast Asia, Jemaah Islamiyah
He began "recruiting JI operatives for inclusion in the hijacking plot as part of his second wave of hijacking attacks to occur after Sept
11," one report summary said.
An operative of Jemaah Islamiyah's operations chief, Riduan Isamuddin Hambali, later began training possible recruits for the second wave of attacks.
One of those who received training in Malaysia before coming to the United States was Zacarias Moussaoui, the Frenchman accused of conspiring with the Sept
11 attacks
Moussaoui has denied being part of the Sept
11 plot, and U.S
and foreign intelligence officials have said he could have been set for hijacking a plane in later attacks.
ALAN COLMES, CO-HOST: Welcome back to a special edition of "Hannity & Colmes." I'm Alan Colmes
Sean reporting live tonight from Sunland Park, New Mexico, on the outskirts of El Paso.
And coming up next, we'll take you over the border to Mexico City to show you the danger lurking everyday on the streets of Mexico's capital.
But first, an army intelligence officer says that a secret military counterterrorist unit called Able Danger identified four of the 9/11 (search) hijackers, including ringleader Mohammed Atta (search), a year before the 9/11 attacks
Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Shaffer says he tried to warn the FBI, but Pentagon lawyers stopped him.
This information was not included in the report released by the 9/11 Commission (search), and the commission denies that Atta's name or the name of other hijackers came up in interviews with Shaffer
Joining us now is Able Danger team member, Lt
Col
Anthony Shaffer.
Lieutenant Colonel, explain to me, how is it they deny it? They also — staff members, like executive director Phil Zelikow, say, despite your statements, they were not told the names of these hijackers, as you claim?
LT
COL
ANTHONY SHAFFER, ABLE DANGER TEAM MEMBER: Well, I don't know how they can overlook that, because the fact is this: They were told not once but twice by a fellow officer, a Navy captain, later on in 2004.
In my October discussion with him, I did not discuss the names of the terrorists
I'm not saying that
I never said that
I did talk about the fact that we found three cells through the use of some advanced technology, two to three cells which conducted 9/11 attacks, to include Atta.
Now, that was the only name I remembered
You have to understand, I was in Afghanistan deployed
I didn't have my documents with me
I didn't have the background
So during this discussion, it was using some notes that I put together myself, based on my memory as talking points, and I discussed the fact that Able Danger (search) was able to use data mining techniques, that were at the time cutting-edge, to merge out of this information data.
COLMES: A lot of people think this is an attack on the 9/11 report
What I saw — I went back and read chapter eight, which — some of the things it said in chapter eight, which is where I think we should be focused, for example, early May of 2001 — and I'll put it on the screen — a walk-in to the FBI claimed there was a plan to launch attacks on cities, including New York.
May 16th, report that a phone call to the U.S
embassy warned that bin Laden (search) supporters were planning an attack on the United States using explosives
The next day, the first item on the CSG's agenda was that very thing from the day before
June 25th, Clarke — that's, of course, Richard Clarke (search) — warning Rice and Deputy Hadley that six separate intelligence reports showed Al Qaeda (search) personnel warning of an attack.
And of course, the briefing of August 6th saying bin Laden determined to strike
This administration had all of that information, and that was in the 9/11 report, and that is much more significant, in my view.
SHAFFER: Well, I'm not arguing the point about the significance
The issue that we've been dealing with is the fact that we had an element of special operations command focused on conducting offensive operations against bin Laden at least two years before 9/11.
Now, I think that's a good, new story
The fact is, we had significant problems which were not addressed in the 9/11 Commission report, which talked to the very essence of why the report was written.
The problems within infrastructure, with personnel, with being able to get information passed to the FBI
One of the issues we've been faced with is the fact that the information we had was, we believed, unique, and we did try to pass it to the FBI through legal methods
And we were not able to do that on a timely basis
As a matter of fact, we weren't able to do it at all before 9/11.
SHAFFER: Well, that was the key
Now, the special operations command, the operations officer of that unit, of Able Danger, brought it to my attention that the lawyers had said, "We can't do anything with this stuff
We need to pass it to the FBI." It was my job then, as part of my unit's responsibility to support Able Danger, was to broker that relationship
That's where things broke down
I set up...
SHAFFER: That is correct, sir
He was very adamant
I went through and gave him my logic of why this was important, the fact Al Qaeda was a major target, and we should be engaged in this
And I was directed several times to the point of where he had to remind me that he was a general and I was not, or else I would be essentially fired.
HANNITY: So there's two big questions here
Question number one is, who stopped the investigation and this important information from getting to the proper authorities to investigate these guys, one?
And number two, the 9/11 Commission had known about this
And in the last week, they've given at least five or six different accounts that I can tell about what you had told them
Explain that.
SHAFFER: Well, on the account thing, I don't understand it, because I've reread, and read, and reread their 12 August account
Their paragraph describing my meeting with them is not even in the ballpark with what happened.
Again, I have talking points that I prepared before the meeting
I used those talking points to talk of
I talked about another human operation, as well as outlining and, in a time line fashion, the whole Able Danger story
And none of those points are even addressed in their statement.
So I don't understand how they could be, like, so far, you know, off what I told them, based on the fact that I do have my talking points from that meeting.
Content and Programming Copyright 2005 FOX News Network, L.L.C
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Transcription Copyright 2005 eMediaMillWorks, Inc
(f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.), which takes sole responsibility for the accuracy of the transcription
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
No license is granted to the user of this material except for the user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon FOX News Network, L.L.C.'s and eMediaMillWorks, Inc.'s copyrights or other proprietary rights or interests in the material
This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.
MADRID, Spain –  A Moroccan fugitive sought in connection with the March 11 train bombings in Madrid was indicted Wednesday on charges of helping to plan the Sept
11 (search) attacks in the United States — the first suspect linked to both attacks.
Amer Azizi (search), 36, helped organize a meeting in northeast Spain in July 2001 that key plotters in the U.S
attacks, including homicide pilot Mohamed Atta (search), used to finalize details, Judge Baltasar Garzon said in the indictment.
Azizi also was included in an indictment Garzon handed down last September against Al Qaeda leader Usama bin Laden (search) and 34 other terror suspects
Azizi was charged then with belonging to a terrorist organization
Bin Laden and nine others were charged with planning the Sept
11 attacks.
In the new indictment, Azizi is charged with multiple counts of murder — "as many deaths and injuries as were committed" on Sept
11, 2001 — for helping to plan the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
Azizi provided lodging for people who attended the July 2001 meeting in the Tarragona region of Spain and acted as a courier, passing on messages between plotters, Garzon said in the indictment.
According to a U.S
congressional investigation, Atta flew to Madrid in July 2001, where authorities believe he met with co-conspirator Ramzi Binalshibh to discuss the plot
Binalshibh, who provided money to many of the hijackers, is now in U.S
custody at an undisclosed overseas location
The U.S
investigation did not mention the presence of any other conspirators in Spain.
Wednesday's indictment described Azizi as the right-hand man of Imad Yarkas, jailed in November 2001 on charges of leading a Spain-based Al Qaeda cell that allegedly provided financing and logistics for people who planned the Sept
11 attacks on the United States.
Garzon said the new indictment is based on information provided by authorities in Britain, Turkey and the United States.
Azizi had a "direct connection with Al Qaeda leaders in Afghanistan who were responsible for the attacks," Garzon charged.
"Spain, like the United States, has been the victim of the atrocities of terrorists connected with al Qaeda
We have worked closely with the Spanish government on terrorism investigations in Spain, and we will continue to do so," Ashcroft said.
In a separate order Wednesday, Garzon said he had identified a person previously known as Shakur, who was indicted last year along with bin Laden on charges of plotting the Sept
11 attacks
Garzon said new police information showed Shakur was Fakid Hilali, a 35-year-old Moroccan detained in Britain since last September for immigration problems
He called for his extradition.
The Interior Ministry released a photo of Azizi this month, calling him a suspect in the March 11 bombings in Madrid, in which 191 people were killed and more than 2,000 were wounded
But he has not been formally charged and the judge leading the investigation, Juan del Olmo, has not issued an arrest warrant for him.
The investigation of the March 11 attacks has turned up evidence that suspects in the train bombings had ties to people charged in the earlier Sept
11 indictment.
Jamal Zougam, owner of a cell phone shop to which phones used as detonators in the railway blasts were traced, was described in that indictment as a follower of Yarkas
Zougam, now jailed, is one of the prime suspects in the Madrid bombings
But Azizi is the first person linked to both terrorist attacks.
He has been on the run since he fled Spain in November 2001, shortly after a wave of arrests that netted Yarkas and more than a dozen other Al Qaeda suspects.
Zacarias Moussaoui, a French citizen, remains the only person charged in the United States as a conspirator in the Sept
11 attacks
Moussaoui, who is awaiting trial in Virginia, has admitted belonging to Al Qaeda but denied he was part of the terror plot.
The only Sept
11 suspect ever convicted walked out of a German jail last month, less than 21/2 years into his 15-year sentence after judges ruled the evidence was too weak to hold him pending a retrial.
Garzon's new indictment places Azizi at a meeting in Istanbul, Turkey, in 2000 with a key suspect in the March 11 attacks, Moroccan Said Berraj.
Spanish newspapers have also quoted police as saying that in late 2002 or early 2003, the alleged instigator of the March 11 attacks, a Tunisian named Serhane Ben Abdelmajid Fakhet, traveled to Turkey and met with Azizi to ask for men to stage an attack in Spain.
Azizi is alleged to have said he had no one available but told Fakhet to contact Zougam, who was among the first people arrested after the attack.
