 Just spoke with @PaulMGrod of UCC. Told him I'm sorry to have spoken lightly of the very real threat Russia poses to Ukraine.  
  OTTAWA—While Justin Trudeau says he’s sorry for making light of the crisis in Ukraine, the Liberal leader says Canadians are “open” to politicians who take risks — and may have to apologize for the odd verbal gaffe.
  
  The Liberal leader spent much of Tuesday doing damage control for comments about the violent clashes in
  
    Ukraine
  
  , which have left dozens dead.
  
  In a tweet Tuesday, Trudeau said he had spoken with Paul Grod of the Ukrainian Canadian Congress and “told him
  
    I’m sorry to have spoken lightly
  
  of the very real threat Russia poses to Ukraine.”
  
  He followed that up with another Tweet saying, “We take the situation in Ukraine very seriously.”
  
  The Liberal leader also paid a visit to the Ukraine embassy in Ottawa to personally apologize to the ambassador, and sign a book of condolences.
  
  “I wanted to make sure that I had the chance to express directly to leaders within the Ukrainian community . . . and the ambassador himself how seriously the Liberal party takes the situation in Ukraine and to say that I regret my comments about Russia, which made light of some very real fears and concerns that Ukrainians have about Russian intervention,” Trudeau told reporters on Parliament Hill.
  
  But Trudeau, who has been criticized for previous comments about the Boston bombing and communist states, also said that Canadians appreciate politicians who speak out.
  
  “I’m confident that my values, my approach and my openness with Canadians is exactly what people from across the country are looking for.”
  
  Trudeau was asked what more Canada could do to help in the crisis that left more than 80 people dead as demonstrators clashed with police in Kyiv over the leadership of Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.
  
  “Canada should do more . . . It is even more worrying now that Russia lost in hockey and will be in a bad mood. We fear some involvement of the Russian government in Ukraine,” Trudeau
  
    said
  
  on the program.
  
  Conservative and NDP MPs
  
    jumped
  
  on the remarks as further evidence that Trudeau lack’s judgment on critical foreign policy issues.
  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  OTTAWA—Justin Trudeau was absent from the House of Commons on Monday as the Ukrainian ambassador demanded an apology for the Liberal leader’s tongue-in-cheek remark about the crisis in Ukraine.  The day after the Liberal leader was criticized for failing to make himself available to the media at the end of the Liberal party’s weekend policy convention, Trudeau had no public events scheduled and didn’t appear for question period.  That left Liberal MP Marc Garneau charged with defending Trudeau for his recent comments on Ukraine during a pre-taped appearance on Radio-Canada’s Tout le Monde en Parle, a humour-infused current affairs program. Trudeau linked the upheaval in Ukraine to Russia’s Olympic hockey woes.  “If you look at the entire transcript, you’ll see that Justin Trudeau spoke very seriously about the situation in Ukraine, and anyone who’s been on Tout Le Monde En Parle knows what kind of show it is,” he said.  “I fail to see the levity when you’ve got dozens of people being shot dead in the street of their own capital, so you don’t make jokes about that,” said NDP Leader Thomas Mulcair.  In an interview that aired at the end of a big Olympic hockey weekend in which Canada won gold over Sweden, Trudeau was asked about the situation in Ukraine and the prospect of Russian involvement.  He joked that Russia could be fuming after being eliminated last week from the Olympic medal round.  “It’s very worrisome,” Trudeau said after telling the panel that he now considers Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych to be illegitimate. “Especially since Russia lost in hockey, they will be in a bad mood. We are afraid of a Russian intervention in Ukraine.”  “Only because of hockey?” the show’s host, Guy A. Lepage, asked Trudeau as other panelists chuckled.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				A Ukrainian man stands in protest in front of gunmen in unmarked uniforms as they stand guard in Balaklava, on the outskirts of Sevastopol, Ukraine, Saturday, March 1, 2014. An emblem on one of the vehicles and their number plates identify them as belonging to the Russian military.
			  SIMFEROPOL, UKRAINE—Russian troops took over Crimea as the parliament in Moscow gave President Vladimir Putin a green light Saturday to use the military to protect Russian interests in Ukraine.  The newly installed government in Kyiv was powerless to react to the action by Russian troops based in the strategic region and more flown in, aided by pro-Russian Ukrainian groups.  Tensions increased when Ukraine’s acting president, Oleksandr Turchynov, made a late night announcement that he had ordered the country’s armed forces to be at full readiness because of the threat of “potential aggression.”  Why Ukraine is not the Cold War revisited: Burman  Ignoring President Barack Obama’s warning Friday that “there will be costs” if Russia intervenes militarily, Putin sharply raised the stakes in the conflict over Ukraine’s future evoking memories of Cold War brinkmanship.  After Russia’s parliament approved Putin’s motion, U.S. officials held a high-level meeting at the White House to review Russia’s military moves in Ukraine. U.S. President Barack Obama also spoke with Putin by telephone.  “Vladimir Putin emphasized that, in the case of a further spread in violence in eastern regions and Crimea, Russia maintains the right to protect its interests and the Russian-speaking population that lives there,” the statement on the website said.  Ukraine’s Ambassador to the UN Yuriy Sergeyev asked the Security Council “to do everything possible now” to stop what he called Russian “aggression.”   Russia’s UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, said the government in Kyiv needs to get away from “radicals” and warned, “such actions they’re taking could lead to very difficult developments, which the Russian Federation is trying to avoid.” He said Russia was intervening at the request of pro-Russian authorities in the autonomous Crimea region that is part of Ukraine.  Calling the situation in Ukraine “as dangerous as it is destabilizing,” U.S. Ambassador to the UN Samantha Power said, “It is time for the Russian military intervention in Ukraine to end.”   She warned that “Russia’s provocative actions could easily push the situation beyond the breaking point.” She asked that Russia directly engage the Ukraine government and called for international monitors to be sent to Ukraine to observe the situation.  “Russia and the West find themselves on the brink of a confrontation far worse than in 2008 over Georgia,” Dmitri Trenin, the director of Carnegie Moscow Center, said in a commentary posted on its website. In Georgia, Russian troops quickly routed the Georgian military after they tried to regain control over the separatist province of South Ossetia that has close ties with Moscow.  The latest moves followed days of scripted, bloodless turmoil on the peninsula, the scene of centuries of wars and seen by Moscow as a crown jewel of the Russian and Soviet empires. What began Thursday with the early-morning takeover of the regional parliament building by mysterious troops continued Saturday afternoon as dozens of those soldiers — almost certainly Russian — moved into the streets around the parliamentary complex and seized control of regional airports, amid street protests by pro-Russian Crimeans calling for Moscow’s protection from the new government in Kyiv.  That government came to power last week in the wake of months of pro-democracy protests against the now-fugitive president, Viktor Yanukovych, and his decision to turn Ukraine toward Russia, its longtime patron, instead of the European Union. Despite the calls for Moscow’s help, there has been no sign of ethnic Russians facing attacks in Crimea or elsewhere in Ukraine.  Obama on Friday called on Russia to respect the independence and territory of Ukraine and not try to take advantage of its neighbour’s political upheaval.  He said such action by Russia would represent a “profound interference” in matters he said should be decided by the Ukrainian people. He has not said, however, how the U.S. could pressure Moscow to step back from its intervention.  On Friday, Ukraine accused Russia of a “military invasion and occupation” in the Crimea, where Russia’s Black Sea fleet is based. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk called on Moscow “to recall their forces, and to return them to their stations,” according to the Interfax news agency. “Russian partners, stop provoking civil and military resistance in Ukraine.”  Ukraine’s population of 46 million is divided in loyalties between Russia and Europe, with much of western Ukraine advocating closer ties with the European Union while eastern and southern regions look to Russia for support. Crimea, a semi-autonomous region that Russia gave to Ukraine in the 1950s, is mainly Russian-speaking.  In his address to parliament, Putin said the “extraordinary situation in Ukraine” was putting at risk the lives of Russian citizens and military personnel stationed at the Crimean naval base that Moscow has maintained since the Soviet collapse.  Despite Putin’s sharp move, there were possible signs Saturday that the Russian leader could soften his approach. Former Ukrainian prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko, who was freed a week ago after more than 2½ years in prison, was reported to be heading to Moscow for a meeting with Putin on Monday. Putin has had good ties with Tymoshenko in the past, and he may look to her for a possible compromise.  Putin’s parliamentary motion loosely refers to the “territory of Ukraine” rather than specifically to Crimea, raising the possibility that Moscow could use military force in other Russian-speaking areas in eastern and southern Ukraine, where many detest the new authorities in Kyiv.  But in a note of restraint, Deputy Foreign Minister Grigory Karasin said the motion doesn’t mean the president would immediately send additional troops to Ukraine. “There is no talk about it yet,” he said.  Pro-Russian protests were reported Saturday in the eastern cities of Kharkiv, Donetsk and Luhansk and the southern port of Odesa. In Kharkiv, 97 people were injured in clashes between pro-Russia demonstrators who flushed supporters of the new Ukrainian government out of the regional government building and hoisted the Russian flag on top of it, according to the Interfax news agency.  Trenin, of Moscow’s Carnegie office, said that Putin could be seeking to “include Crimea within the Russian Federation and eastern and southern regions of Ukraine forming a separate entity integrated with Russia economically and aligned with it politically.”  “It is not clear at this point whether Kyiv will be left to build a rump Ukraine with the western regions or whether it will be swayed to join the eastern regions,” he wrote.  In Crimea, the new pro-Russian prime minister — who came to power after the gunmen swept into parliament on Thursday — claimed control of the military and police and asked Putin for help in keeping peace. There was no visible presence of Ukrainian troops Saturday.  Crimean Tatars, the historic hosts of the land who make up 12 per cent of the peninsula’s population and stand strongly for Crimea remaining part of Ukraine, didn’t put up any visible resistance Saturday.  “The last two or three days have turned around the life of all the people in Crimea,” said Refat Chubarov, a Crimean Tatar leader. “They’ve taken over military bases and civil institutions. That’s why Crimean society is filled with fear. People are afraid of everyone and everything.”  Crimea only became part of Ukraine in 1954 when Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev transferred jurisdiction from Russia, a move that was a mere formality when both Ukraine and Russia were part of the Soviet Union. The Soviet breakup in 1991 meant Crimea landed in an independent Ukraine.  Russia put pressure on Ukraine from another direction when a spokesman for state gas company Gazprom said that Ukraine owed $1.59 billion in overdue bills for imported gas. Sergei Kuprianov said in a statement carried by Russian news wires that the gas arrears would endanger a recent discount granted by Russia.  The Russian payment demand and loss of the discount would accelerate Ukraine’s financial crisis. The country is almost broke and seeking emergency credit from the International Monetary Fund.  The tensions barely touched everyday life in Simferopol, the regional capital of Crimea, or anywhere on the peninsula. Children played on swings a few blocks from the parliament building, and most of the city’s stores were open. Couples walked hand-in-hand through parks. Crimea’s airports — civilian and military — were closed to air traffic, but trains and cars were moving to and from the Ukrainian mainland. The civilian airport in Simferopol was reopened late Saturday night.  “Things are normal,” said Olga Saldovskaia, who was walking through town with her son and grandson. While she doesn’t like having gunmen in the streets, like many people in this overwhelmingly ethnic Russian city, she also found their presence reassuring.  “If anyone tries to hurt the people here, they will protect us,” said Saldovskaia. She said she sympathized with the pro-democracy protesters in Kyiv, but also worries that turmoil in the capital could lead to violence against ethnic Russians. She added, though, that she definitely doesn’t want Crimea to become part of Russia.  Moscow has remained silent on claims that Russian troops are already in control of much of the peninsula, saying any troop movements are within agreed-upon rules governing the semi-autonomous Ukrainian region.  Meanwhile, flights remained halted at Simferopol’s airport. Dozens of armed men in military uniforms without markings patrolled the area. They didn’t stop or search people leaving or entering the airport, and refused to talk to journalists.  AP journalists crossing into Crimea from mainland Ukraine were briefly stopped at a checkpoint manned by troops in unmarked camouflage uniforms as well as officers in uniforms of the Berkut, the feared riot police that cracked down on anti-Yanukovych protesters before he fled the capital a week ago.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  PARIS—The United States and Russia agreed Sunday that the crisis in Ukraine requires a diplomatic resolution, but four hours of talks between U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov failed to break a tense East-West deadlock over how to proceed.  Sitting face to face but not seeing eye to eye on any of the most critical issues, Kerry and Lavrov advanced far different proposals on how to calm tensions and de-escalate the situation, particularly as Russia continues to mass troops along its border with the former Soviet republic.   As he called for Moscow to begin an immediate pullback of the troops, Kerry also ruled out discussion of Russia’s demand for Ukraine to become a loose federation until, and unless, Ukrainians are at the table.  “The Russian troop buildup is creating a climate of fear and intimidation in Ukraine,” Kerry told reporters at the home of the U.S. ambassador to France after the meeting, which was held at the Russian ambassador’s residence. “It certainly does not create the climate that we need for dialogue.”  The U.S. believes the massing of tens of thousands of Russian soldiers along the border, purportedly for military exercises, is at once an attempt to intimidate Ukraine’s new leaders after Russia’s annexation of the strategic Crimean peninsula and to use a bargaining chip with the United States and the European Union, which have condemned Crimea’s absorption into Russia and imposed sanctions on senior Russian officials.  U.S. officials said Kerry proposed a number of ideas on troop withdrawals from the border and that Lavrov, while making no promises, told him he would present the proposals to the Kremlin.  At a separate news conference at the Russian ambassador’s house, Lavrov did not address the troop issue. Instead he made the case for Moscow’s idea of Ukraine as a federalized nation with its various regions enjoying major autonomy from the government in Kyiv.   Russia says it is particularly concerned about the treatment of ethnic Russians and Russian speakers who live in southern and eastern Ukraine.  He said every time Ukraine has elected a new president, the country has adopted a new constitution, proving that “the model of a unified state doesn’t work.”  Ukrainian officials are wary of decentralizing power, fearing that pro-Russia regions would hamper its Western aspirations and potentially split the country apart. However, they are exploring political reforms that could grant more authority to local governments.  The U.S. has been coy about its position on a federation, but officials insist that any changes to Ukraine’s governing structure must be acceptable to the Ukrainians.  Kerry said the federation idea had not been discussed in any serious way during his meeting with Lavrov “because it would have been inappropriate to do so without Ukrainian input.”  “Federation does not mean, as some in Kyiv fear, an attempt to split Ukraine,” he said. “To the contrary, federation … answers the interests of all regions of Ukraine.”  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
  When the Soviet Union collapsed 22 years ago, Ukraine was the first state to declare independence, shocking Russia when 90 per cent expressed support for cutting ties with its former ruler.
  
  But the country that Vladimir Lenin once described as “Russia’s first colony” is still trying to sever the cord that binds it to Moscow. More than 300,000 people have turned out in recent days for national protests against President
  
    Viktor Yanukovych’s decision to reject a European Union treaty
  
  for a customs union with Russia.
  
  Russian President Vladimir Putin, meanwhile, called the protests “more of a pogrom than a revolution,” describing them as an attempt to “shake the legitimate authorities” in advance of a 2015 presidential election.
  
  In spite of the swelling protests — and a series of defections from Yanukovych’s party — polls show opinion is sharply divided over whether Ukraine should cut itself off from Russia (on which it depends for trade and energy supplies) or and pursue a European partnership that is far from guaranteed.
  
  Nevertheless, there are historic as well as economic roots to the aversion that at least half the population feels to Russia’s bear hug.
  
  Although Ukrainians and Russians sprang from the same ethnic and Orthodox religious background (and early Russia was once ruled from Kyiv), differences grew over the centuries as power gravitated to Moscow. Ukrainians developed their own language and culture and, as Russian settlers colonized their country, resented being called “Little Russians.”
  
  By the mid-19th century, anger had grown.
  
  “For the last 150 years Russia has been viewed as the primary problem for Ukraine,” says Alexander Motyl, a political science professor at Rutgers University-Newark. “First it was a czarist empire, then a communist empire. There was collectivization (of agriculture), the great famine and crackdowns on language and culture.”
  
  But, Motyl adds, the main problem has not been resentment of Russians but resentment of a political system that has imposed hardship and humiliation on Ukraine with few rewards in return.
  
  “Younger, well-educated people in bigger cities, and western Ukraine, definitely want to be closer to Europe,” says Piotr Dutkiewicz of Carleton University in an interview from Moscow. “Some older people, including intellectuals, are against the EU for several reasons.”
  
  And the “basic economic calculation” looks bad, Dutkiewicz says.
  
  Trade with the EU would be a $1-billion gain for Ukraine, with an additional $900 million offered in aid. That pales by comparison with the $8 billion or more Ukraine could gain from a closer union with Russia.
  
  But Putin’s two-fisted approach to Ukraine’s EU decision may have prompted a harder pushback than he or Yanukovych imagined, says Paul Goble, a retired U.S. State Department expert on the non-Russians of the former Soviet Union.
  
  “Putin has overplayed his hand,” Goble said. “He’s not only alienated Ukrainians but woken up some people in the West to the fact that he’s a dangerous man who doesn’t respect the sovereignty of his neighbours.”
  
  “The Russian Federation could be significantly smaller in the next 10 years,” he said. “When you look at the population, 40 per cent of Russian males are now Muslim. There is a massive (guest worker) influx from Central Asia. Putin is playing on the most xenophobic fears of Russians.”
  
  Instead of cultivating a neighbourly relationship with fellow Slavic nation Ukraine, Putin has gone for the political jugular. “If Ukraine becomes part of Europe, a fundamental reordering of society could happen. He’s afraid of that.”
  
  “I’ve been watching Ukraine for 40 years, and this is a very big deal. It’s bigger than the Orange Revolution.”
  
      
        Correction -December 4, 2013:
      
      This article was edited from a previous version that misstated the percentage of Muslim Russian males.
      Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
  SLAVYANSK, UKRAINE—We were just a few nervous steps from the taxi when the small mob descended.
  
  Four angry faces, bulged tight with tension on the ready-to-blow streets of Slavyansk, getting right up in ours. Three men and a woman. Fifty-something. Friends of Russia.
  
    Civilians
  
  .
  
  But there was no hiding the other dirty word: journalist. And so, with great reluctance, I played the Toronto Star card.
  
  A frenzy ensued. And amid the shouts, and Mikhail’s counter-shouts, I saw the most aggressive of the men raise his cellphone to make The Call. He was a civilian, but it seemed now that he knew someone who was not. We were about to get sucked down the black hole of detention that is taking reporters and others out of the regional equation at a torrid rate.
  
  One last card to play. “Parlez-vous Francais?” I asked in the calmest voice I could muster. “Je suis un journalist Canadien.
  
    Franco-Canadien
  
  .” Franco Franco Franco. I couldn’t say it enough. Anything but English.
  
  It was a ruse that probably shouldn’t have worked. But it slowed things down. The woman pulled down the arm of the man with the cellphone, buying us time.
  
  For the next 30 minutes we withstood a withering browbeat. It was The World According to Putin — a fierce, beseeching laundry list of grievances, frustrations and fear, delivered in staccato Russian.
  
  But the more they vented, the less angry they became. And about halfway through, I began to think — hope —
  
    vive le Quebec libre
  
  . My dismal command of Canada’s other official language was enough to persuade these desperate and panicked monolingual Russians in
  
    Ukraine
  
  that we weren’t really the enemy. French, ironically, was our Get Out Of Jail card in a part of Ukraine whose language lacks official status with the new government in Kyiv.
  
  This complex mess involves much more than language. But as we worked to extract ourselves — there were least 20 handshakes in the final 15 minutes of the encounter, and one of the men actually said “sorry” at the very end — the risk of speaking English in these parts was never more apparent.
  
  The airwaves have been stripped of Ukrainian television and there are Moscow’s state-controlled feeds in their place. And for the past week, leaflets have been circulating throughout the insurgent-controlled towns warning of American provocateurs. “Beware the CIA in sheep’s clothing,” one reads.
  
  Thursday afternoon’s close call came on a day that got more jagged by the hour in Slavyansk, the tactical epicentre of Ukraine’s separatist uprising. The morning saw Ukrainian special forces advance in two columns to within three kilometres of the city centre,
  
    unloading fire on pro-Russian checkpoints
  
  that left at least three dead.
  
  As insurgents retreated under clouds of flaming tire smoke and as news of the deaths spread, the Ukrainian army then retreated, leaving a numbed city to at least superficially go about its business.
  
  Reaction to the violence was swift, with Moscow signalling an intensification of military exercises on along the Ukrainian border and Russian President Vladimir Putin issuing a warning of “consequences.”
  
  Inside the city, the thin veneer of business-as-normal was transparent. The Star spoke to a group of three young men, longtime friends we were told, near the Slavyansk train station who seemed cautiously at odds with each other.
  
  They all shared anger and frustration at the morning’s deaths — and a fear that their city was beginning to buckle. One said it was a big mistake for the Ukrainian army to confront pro-Russian checkpoints as they are overwhelmingly manned by local volunteers — unlike “others, who may not all be Ukrainian,” who are inside city buildings.
  
  The odd man out was Alexander, 30 (he declined to give his last name, saying only “nyet, nyet”). He began expressing a preference for “one Ukraine, like it was before,” when the other two deliberately drowned out his answer, talking over him.
  
  Moments later, as the three walked away, there was an astonishing sight — the sky suddenly appeared filled with confetti.
  
  As the white dots drew nearer, they shaped up to be thousands of leaflets airdropped by the government in Kyiv as a “Survival Guide” to the people of Slavyansk.
  
  “Don’t come near government buildings,” the one-pager warned. “First you will be a human shield, then you will be a hostage. For Russian terrorists, the more victims the better.”
  
  It was in the mercurial aftermath of the landing leaflets that the Star found itself accosted Thursday.
  
  Later, upon finding safe haven for the night, came the lone great news of the day: the
  
    release of Vice News journalist Simon Ostrovosky
  
  after four days in the custody of the separatists. He left Slavyansk in a CBC van.
  
  Ostrovosky told CBC he had been held with some 10 other local journalists, who remain in custody. He was “beaten and blindfolded at the start of his ordeal” but treatment improved as the days wore on.
  
  By the way, Mikhail, our interpreter? That’s not his real name.
  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Stepan Bandera, who led a Ukrainian insurgent army during the Second World War, is seen as a hero in western Ukraine and a villain to Russians.
			  KYIV, UKRAINE—The rhetoric out of Moscow is consistent, bombastic and, to the western ear, perhaps a bit puzzling: Ukraine today is run by thugs, fascists and Banderists.  To Russians and ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine, Bandera is a villain, a vile betrayer who allied himself with Adolf Hitler in the worst years of the Second World War.  Bandera’s story — or, experts say, more correctly his myth — is powerful. Russian President Vladimir Putin referenced Bandera twice — calling him “Hitler’s accomplice” — during his speech to the Russian Parliament calling for the annexation of Crimea. And he and his administration have repeated the reference since to describe Ukraine.  Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk was forced to reassure his own skeptical populous in the restive east and south, the Washington Post reports. Speaking in Russian on national television, he pledged that “supporters of Bandera” would not pour into eastern and southern cities and towns on a quest to “re-educate” the population.  Meanwhile, at Maidan, Kyiv’s Independence Square, Bandera’s image is displayed as an inspiration, sharing space only with poet Taras Shevchenko, considered the father of the Ukrainian language. Ukrainians have even started answering their phones with the Bandera phrase “Glory to Ukraine” rather than the more traditional “Hello.”  He and his Ukrainian insurgent army, depending on the point of view, fought with Hitler or fought against Hitler. He betrayed the Soviet Union or tried to save Ukraine from Soviet leader Joseph Stalin. He slaughtered Poles, or, well, everyone acknowledges he killed Poles, though Ukrainians would say it was part of their fight for independence. Nevertheless, Poles share Russia’s distaste for Bandera, whom the Soviet KGB killed in 1959, when he was living in West Germany.  Former president Viktor Yushchenko, the pro-West leader of the 2004 Orange Revolution, posthumously named Bandera “Hero of Ukraine.”  Viktor Yanukovych, the pro-Russia president who succeeded Yushchenko and whose flight to Russia in February presaged the showdown in Crimea, revoked the honour.  “He wanted to create a Greater Ukraine reaching from the river Danube to the Caspian Sea,” Per Anders Rudling, an expert on Ukrainian history at Sweden’s Lund University, told the Washington Post. “He and his followers, similarly to the Nazis, advocated selective breeding to create ‘pure’ Ukrainians.”  But the historians also say it didn’t last long, and Bandera ended up in the Nazis’ Sachsenhausen concentration camp near Berlin, while two of his brothers died in Auschwitz.  And, they note, as soon as Hitler’s forces invaded Ukraine, the pledge by Bandera’s men to “fight the occupier” applied to the Nazis.  But beyond the reality of Bandera is the myth — and what he represents. Historians and analysts in Ukraine think that by attacking Bandera, Putin isn’t attacking simply a man reviled by Stalin but also the broader notion of Ukrainian independence.  “The real issue here is that Russians do not and never have accepted that Ukraine is a real country,” said Stanislav Kulchytsky, the head of the department of Ukrainian history at the country’s National Academy of Sciences. “Poles have Poland, Germans have Germany, Turks have Turkey. But in the Russian view, Ukrainians are really Russian. It’s an imperialist view, and it isn’t going away.”  Bandera, in particular, troubles Putin, who’s known to be a student of Stalin. The Germans released Bandera in September 1944 and provided his men with weapons in hopes they would blunt the advance of the Red Army. Obviously, that failed.  At the end of the war, Bandera remained in Germany, promoting Ukrainian independence until 1959, when he was found dead in his apartment in Munich of cyanide poisoning. A German court convicted a KGB defector of the crime three years later, finding the hit had been ordered by then-Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev.  Volodymyr Viatrovych, the director of the Center for Research of the Liberation Movement in Lviv and a leader of the protest movement at Maidan, said the Bandera image works for Putin in the world outside Russia because of the connection to fascism.   Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				To Stephen Harper — with Vadym Prystaiko, the Ukrainian ambassador to Canada — some regimes are simply and unequivocally evil, writes Thomas Walkom.
			  Throughout the Ukrainian crisis, Prime Minister Stephen Harper has been uncompromising.  His government was one of the first to support the street protesters who eventually overthrew Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych.  His visit to Kyiv later this week will be the first by any G7 leader.  Given that some 20-million Russian and other Soviet citizens died in the war against Nazism, it wasn’t the most politic of comments.  Even the U.S. government hasn’t been as bellicose.  American Secretary of State John Kerry says the U.S. recognizes Russia’s “legitimate interests in Ukraine.”  That sentiment has been echoed by former U.S. national security advisers Henry Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzezinski, both of whom are calling for the Finlandization of Ukraine as a way to solve the crisis.  Simply put, that means that Ukraine, like Finland, would forge economic relations with the West but would not join NATO.  Meanwhile, European Union leaders have been trying to find a pathway through the Ukrainian minefield that expresses their dismay at Russian actions, while leaving the door open to an eventual resolution.  What’s more, there is little economic downside from talking tough to Moscow. A report prepared by the Library of Parliament notes that Russia accounts for less than half a percentage point of Canada’s total world trade.  Harper got the message and has kept his mouth shut about Chinese human rights abuses ever since. He faces no such constraint where Russia is concerned.  But in part, Harper’s tough line on Ukraine reflects a long-held view on what he sees as morality in foreign affairs. Conservative politicians, he said back in 2003, should not just bend with the winds of convenience. Instead, they should take into account “moral insights on right and wrong.”  Harper also supports the current military-backed regime in Egypt even though it came to power in a coup that removed the country’s democratically elected president.  To Stephen Harper, some regimes are simply and unequivocally evil. In his mind, it seems, Putin’s is one of those. Russia is so offside that Harper last year questioned its membership in the G8 group of nations — what he called the “G7 plus one.”  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  There is something going on with Stephen Harper. He has the look of a leader who, at game’s end, is trying to burnish his legacy.  Putin’s “aggressive, militaristic and imperialistic” activities in Europe, the prime minister said Monday at a deliberately-arranged photo opportunity, aren’t just wrong. They threaten the “peace and stability of the world.”  Harper and Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird have already compared Putin’s annexation of Crimea to Hitler’s land grabs of the 1930s. The prime minister now seems to be positioning himself as the Winston Churchill of the modern age, the leader who recognizes Satan for what he is when others are willing to temporize.  That Canada alone can do nothing to stop Russia is immaterial. The point is to be seen as prescient, to be on the right side of history.  Indeed, in far too many cases Harper has ended up on the wrong, or at least the indeterminate, side of history.  In government, he invested his prestige in an Afghan war that the Canadian public eventually tired of.  He was one of the first to call for military action against Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi. Gadhafi was quickly defeated. But Libya remains a mess that few NATO leaders, including Harper, want to be reminded of.  He went out of his way to scupper international action against climate change. Unfortunately for his legacy, he did so just as the practical effects of climate change — including summer droughts and vicious winter storms — were becoming obvious.  His rock-hard support of Israel has endeared him to many Jewish voters in Canada. However, history’s verdict on Israel and the Palestinians has not yet been rendered.  Harper’s domestic legacy is settled. He will be remembered as the prime minister who negotiated free trade deals with the European Union and South Korea. He refocused government attention on resources, particularly bitumen from Alberta. He made the most serious effort of any prime minister since Pierre Trudeau to wean Canada from its dependence on the U.S. market.  He continued the work, started by Jean Chrétien and Paul Martin, of dismantling the welfare state. And he wisely abandoned his own ideological predilections in order to spend his way through the first years of the post-2008 slump.  But leaders also want to be remembered for their actions on the international stage. Lester Pearson’s name will always be linked to United Nations peacekeeping. Brian Mulroney will be viewed by history as a leader who helped end apartheid in South Africa. Chrétien’s claim to fame as a statesman is based on his refusal to join the U.S. coalition of the willing against Saddam Hussein.  Stephen Harper? If events turn out as he predicts, Canada’s 22nd prime minister will be seen as a prophet — as a leader who recognized evil in the world and urged international action to stop it. That, I suspect, is what he’s aiming for.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Ukraine supporters yell at pro-Russian protesters during a rally in Simferopol, Ukraine, on March 10. Crimean citizens will vote in a referendum on March 16, on whether to become part of the Russian federation.***
			  Russian forces have effectively taken control of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula in what has turned into Europe’s greatest geopolitical crisis since the end of the Cold War. On Sunday the region is to hold a referendum on whether to split off and become part of Russia, which the West says it will not recognize.  “We have to admit that our life now is almost like . . . a war,” Foreign Minister Andrii Deshchytsya said before meeting his counterparts from Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. “We have to cope with an aggression that we do not understand.”  Deshchytsya said Ukraine is counting on help from the West. Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk is to meet with U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington on Wednesday.  On Monday, the Russian Foreign Ministry said lawlessness “now rules in eastern regions of Ukraine as a result of the actions of fighters of the so-called ‘Right Sector,’ with the full connivance” of Ukraine’s new authorities.  Right Sector is a grouping of several far-right and nationalist factions whose activists were among the most radical and confrontational of the three-month-long demonstrations in the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, which eventually ousted President Viktor Yanukovych.  The Kremlin statement also claimed Russian citizens trying to enter Ukraine have been turned back at the border by Ukrainian officials.  Obama has warned that the referendum in Crimea would violate international law. But on Sunday, Russian President Vladimir Putin made it clear that he supports the vote, in phone calls with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Minister David Cameron.  “The steps taken by the legitimate leadership of Crimea are based on the norms of international law and aim to ensure the legal interests of the population of the peninsula,” said Putin, according to the Kremlin.  On Monday, Putin was briefed by Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, on the contents of a document Lavrov received from Secretary of State John Kerry explaining the U.S. view of the situation in Ukraine.  That document contains “a concept which does not quite agree with us because everything was stated in terms of allegedly having a conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and in terms of accepting the fait accompli,” Lavrov said. The Kremlin contends Yanukovych was ousted by a coup.  In Washington, the State Department said it was still waiting to hear from Moscow whether it would accept a U.S. proposal for negotiating an end to Ukraine crisis.  A statement released Monday said Kerry, in weekend discussions with Lavrov, reiterated Washington’s demand that Moscow pull back its troops from Ukraine and end attempts to annex the Crimean peninsula. Kerry also called on Russia to cease what the statement described as “provocative steps” to allow diplomatic talks to continue.  China has been studiously neutral since Ukraine crisis began and it remained unclear whether China would side with the U.S. and Europe or with Moscow.  The UN Security Council, meanwhile, met on Ukraine for the fifth time in 10 days to hear closed-door briefings from UN political chief Jeffrey Feltman and Ukraine’s UN ambassador, Yuriy Sergeyev. The council has been unable to take any action because Russia has veto power.  France’s UN ambassador, Gerard Araud, said the goal was to “send a message to the Russians . . . ‘No referendum, you have to respect the Ukrainian constitution and negotiate.’”  Lara Jakes, Matthew Lee and Julie Pace in Washington, and Edith M. Lederer at the United Nations contributed to this report.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				A Maidan protester stands guard in front of frescoes at the Mykhaylo Gold Domes cathedral in Kiev, on Feb. 26, 2014.
			  
  Will the people who feel nostalgic for the Cold War please leave the room. As the dramatic events in
  
    Ukraine
  
  threaten to rewrite the early history of this 21st century, it is dangerous that a relic of the 20th century keeps being injected into the debate.
  
  This is a moment of great peril for Ukraine and its people. There is no certainty here of a happy ending, even though it is impossible not to be stirred by the crowds filling Kyiv’s Maidan square night after night. They are demanding what other democracies take for granted: the right to determine their own future.
  
  But it is also a moment of great challenge beyond
  
    Ukraine’s borders
  
  . Depending on how this crisis unfolds, it has potentially immense implications for Europe, for the United States and, of course, for Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin.
  
  Russia’s role in this drama flows uniquely from its geography and its history. As Ukraine’s eastern neighbour, Russia shares a strategic border as well as a tortured history together as part of the former Soviet Union. What happens in Ukraine matters mightily to Moscow.
  
  But there is little patience for this sentiment among powerful political interests in the U.S. In response to President Barack Obama’s declaration that the U.S. is not engaged in a “Cold War chess game” with Russia over Ukraine’s future, there are increasing demands among American conservatives that the Obama administration take a tougher line against Moscow.
  
  The leading proponent is Sen. John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate in the 2008 election. Returning this week from a visit to Ukraine, he called Obama “the most naïve president in history” and urged that he warn Putin that “any interference in Ukraine would have the most serious repercussions.”
  
  But McCain’s comic book nostalgia for the rhetoric of the Cold War ignores the complexity of the Ukrainian story. There will be no easy way out of this stalemate and McCain, while in Ukraine, unwittingly highlighted one reason why.
  
  McCain was photographed addressing a rally in Kyiv. Standing prominently beside him was a smiling Oleh Tyahnybok, leader of the ultra-nationalist, pro-fascist Svoboda opposition political party. Tyahnybok once called for the liberation of Ukraine from the “Muscovite-Jewish mafia” and has described Nazi death camp guard John Demjanjuk as a hero “fighting for truth.”
  
  But so far, western leaders actually in power are showing restraint. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Ukraine should not be a battleground between “West versus East,” suggesting it is clearly in everyone’s interests to avoid the kind of escalation that could get out of control. But it will take skilful diplomacy on all sides.
  
  One idea this week, which received considerable attention, came from Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser to former U.S. president Jimmy Carter.
  
    Writing in the Financial Times
  
  , he argued that Ukraine cannot be part of any anti-Moscow alliance and he suggested that a “Finnish model” could work. Finland, north of Ukraine, is also a neighbour of Russia.
  
  Brzezinski wrote the U.S. could assure Putin it would work toward “a truly independent and territorially undivided Ukraine” that would follow Finland’s lead. Like Finland, Ukraine would become a “mutually respectful neighbour with wide-ranging economic relations with Russia and the (European Union).”
  
  This crisis is happening in a part of the world that is steeped in history, most recently a very troubled history. It was only 25 years ago that the Berlin Wall collapsed, triggering a series of events that led to the demise of the Soviet Union. This effectively ended the Cold War.
  
  But if we want to reach back to the 20th century for illuminating historical references, we should go back a full 100 years. It was in August 1914, when the horror of the First World War began. Leaders at the time “sleepwalked” to war, seemingly unaware that their actions, or inaction, have consequences.
  
  It is that tragic moment in the 20th century — not the Cold War — that should be in our minds as Ukraine’s dramatic journey continues.
  
  
    
      Correction - March 3, 2014:
    
    This article was edited from a previous version that mistakenly said John McCain was the Republican presidential candidate in the 2013 U.S. election.
  
  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				 Paul Heinbecker, a former Canadian  ambassador to the UN, is highly critical of Ottawa's handling of the Russia-Ukraine crisis, and said he hopes Canada’s envoy returns to his post in Moscow within days.
			  OTTAWA—The Harper government’s response to the Russia-Ukraine crisis smacks of empty gestures from a country that has become increasingly marginalized on the world stage, said two retired Canadian ambassadors Sunday.  Those scathing reviews came from two of the county’s most distinguished ex-diplomats: Jeremy Kinsman, who has served as Canada’s senior envoy to Russia, Britain, Italy and the European Union, and Paul Heinbecker, the former ambassador to the United Nations and an adviser to past Conservative and Liberal prime ministers.  They were highly critical of Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s decision Saturday to temporarily withdraw Canada’s ambassador to Russia, and of Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird for not ruling out the expulsion of Russia’s ambassador to Canada, Georgiy Mamedov, in a later televised interview.  Both dismissed the Canadian response as “gestures” that underscored Canada’s lack of clout on the world stage, especially since its historic failure to win a temporary seat on the UN Security Council in 2010.  “We are the great practitioners of grand gestures,” Kinsman said Sunday in a telephone interview from California.  “Pulling your ambassador out for consultations — I happen to believe always you don’t do that. That’s strictly a gesture. This is the one time when you want your ambassador there.”  Kinsman said that recalling Canada’s ambassador and suggesting the Russia’s envoy to Ottawa could be next is “silly” and that the government simply wants to be “seem to be doing something.”  “That’s just childish,” he added. “Georgiy Mamedov is the dean of the diplomatic corps. He’s being there for 11 years; he’s been dealing with Canada for 30. He’s a professional.”  “Mamedov is one of the guys you really want to be able to talk to,” Heinbecker said in an interview in Ottawa.  “Mamedov was the guy who negotiated the end of the Kosovo war. He knows a little bit about how to cope with these kind of West-versus-Russia situations.”  Heinbecker said he hopes Canada’s envoy returns to his post in Moscow within days and that the Harper government recognizes the need to keep its embassy there, and Russia’s in Ottawa, functioning at full strength.  “It’s a government given to gestures. It’s foreign-policy by declaration and by gesture, all calculated with an eye on the next election,” Heinbecker said of Ottawa’s general response to the crisis.  Fen Hampson, director of the global security at Waterloo, Ont.’s Centre for International Governance Innovation, defended the government’s decision as “a principled step in the right direction.” He also praised Baird for visiting protesters in Kyiv in December.  Hampson said Canada should begin discussions with other G8 members about expelling Russia, “which was admitted on our watch at the Halifax summit” in 1995. He also said Canada has an influential role to play in NATO.  “As a NATO member, we should also be pressing to beef up NATO forces in Central Europe and the Balkans while also ensuring in ongoing talks between NATO and Russia that the situation does not escalate or get out of hand,” he added.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Independence Square in central Kyiv is the centre of the protests in Ukraine. An interactive map shows demonstrators where to find food, a toilet or shower, and even supplies needed by those who have barricaded themselves inside the square.
			  
  When Ukrainian Canadian Krystina Waler first joined the Euromaidan protests in Kyiv’s Independence Square, she remembers the overwhelming feelings of hope among the crowd.
  
  It was late November. Waler turned toward the student standing next to her, he looked at her with tears in his eyes and said, “Yanukovych will have to do this; he has no choice but to sign the agreement.”
  
  That agreement was with the
  
    European Union
  
  regarding intentions to pursue freer trade, a move that would align the former Soviet bloc nation with the West and away from Russian influence. But President Viktor Yanukovych turned instead toward Moscow and accepted Russia’s $15-billion loan to ease Ukraine’s debt. The country erupted in anger. Russian President Vladimir Putin recently put the loan on hold until a new Ukrainian government is formed.
  
  In January, Waler joined the protests again, but the hope once felt by the thousands of Ukrainians now occupying the square had turned to dread and despair. Waler left just before police decided to clear the square using batons, bullets and physical might.
  
  Euromaidan, or “European square” was the name coined for the revolutionary movement after
  
    Yanukovych formally signalled he wouldn’t sign the EU-Ukraine agreement on Nov. 21
  
  . Word spread quickly throughout Ukraine via social media, and protests were organized under the hashtags #euromaidan, #євромайдан and #евромайдан according to the news website Global Voices. A
  
    Euromaidan Facebook
  
  page was also quickly set up.
  
  By Nov. 24,
  
    tens of thousands of people had descended into central Kyiv’s Independence Square
  
  and many have refused to leave until real reform is granted. Protesters have set up a mini city, fortified like a medieval town and centred around the main stage in the square.
  
  The Euromaidan demonstrators have learned from both social media and the
  
    Occupy movement
  
  (a protest against income inequality), how to digitally organize themselves. Using Facebook, Euromaidan has created an interactive map that provides detailed information on everything from where to grab a bowl of soup to the location of the nearest portable toilet.
  
  Euromaidan uses icons to pinpoint the location of makeshift hospitals, where to eat, information booths, bathrooms with showers, rest areas, churches and the barricades. Double click on an icon and a picture will pop up, along with a list of supplies needed at that particular station. For example, one hospital station says it needs water, sterile saline for flushing eyes after tear gas attacks, sterile wipes and lip balm. Click on a washroom icon and it will tell you it needs toilet paper along with a message reminding everyone of the “cultural” importance of good hygiene.
  
  The food is all free, prepared by legions of volunteers, and Kyiv restaurants donate their leftovers to the movement, says Waler.
  
  At night, when the temperature drops below freezing, protesters are moved to safe houses or apartments. “The people of Kyiv have opened up their homes because you can’t sleep outside in – 30 C,” Waler says.
  
  With no visible end in sight to the political crisis in Ukraine —
  
    Catherine Ashton, the EU’s foreign policy chief
  
  offered Wednesday to broker Ukrainian constitutional reform to pave the way for a new government — the push to provide humanitarian aid to the demonstrators is intensifying.
  
  A charitable effort organized by Polish priest Stefan
  
    Batruch
  
  collected 11 tons of food, warm clothing, sleeping bags and dressings. The donations were loaded into trucks in Poland and sent into Ukraine. While the shipment cleared customs into Ukraine, it was refused entry into Kyiv, according to Polskie Radio.
  
  Some Polish politicians and leaders of the former
  
    Solidarity
  
  movement have even travelled to Kyiv to join Ukrainians fighting for reform. The supplies were important but largely a symbolic gesture, Batruch told Polskie Radio.
  
  The supplies are now sitting in a warehouse. Diplomatic efforts to get the trucks moving are underway.
  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Russian President Vladimir Putin's marathon press conference on Tuesday was  marked by whoppers, including that Russian troops in Crimea are not Russian, but the West should try to understand why the troops are there, Thomas Walkom writes.
			  There are two things to keep in mind about the Ukrainian crisis.  The first is that, rhetoric aside, there is little that the West can or will do to force Russian President Vladimir Putin’s troops out of Crimea.  The second is that Russia’s view of what’s happening in Ukraine differs dramatically from the one commonly accepted here.  If those who overthrew the old order in Kyiv are counting on the West to protect them militarily from Moscow, they are almost certainly doomed to disappointment.  There has been talk of economic sanctions. But as both the West and Russia know, these would cut two ways.  In the short run, Western Europe depends on Russian oil and natural gas. Russian rubles grease Britain’s important financial industry.  As the BBC reported, British Prime Minister David Cameron has been warned by his own officials against imposing sanctions that could interfere with London’s role as a financial centre.  The West could expel Russia from the G8 group of big industrial nations. But so what? Many countries, including China, get by perfectly well outside of the G8.  Resolutions condemning Russia’s intervention in Ukraine’s Crimea region, such as the one passed unanimously in the Commons Monday, may make the participants feel virtuous. But they have no practical effect.  Lost in the clamour is the fact that Russia has an entirely different take on what is happening in Ukraine.  In the West, last month’s revolution is lauded as a victory of democracy over despotism. To Russia’s leaders, however, it was a Washington-backed putsch designed to draw a region long deemed essential to Moscow’s security into the enemy camp.  U.S. President Barack Obama says Ukraine can both be a friend to the West and to Russia.  But I suspect he was speaking close to the heart when he accused the U.S. and its friends of playing a crucial role in the “coup d’état” that brought Ukraine’s new government to power.  “They sit there across the pond as if in a lab running all kinds of experiments on the rats,” Putin said.  To Moscow, the decision to dig in now follows logically from what it sees as two decades of Western double-dealing.  Canadians remember that the Berlin Wall came down in 1989. Russia remembers that, in return, the U.S. and its allies agreed to recognize Moscow’s vital interest in its own neighbourhood.  Yet to Russia’s dismay, that pledge was soon broken as NATO welcomed 11 former Soviet satellites into its fold, including Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.  In 2003 and 2004, Western countries backed so-called colour revolutions in Georgia and Ukraine. In 2008, NATO agreed that both would eventually be allowed to join the military alliance.  The West viewed all of this as the march of democracy. But Moscow saw it as hypocritical meddling.  Russia knows that the U.S. accords itself the right to intervene militarily in the affairs of its neighbours. It has famously done so throughout Latin America and the Caribbean.  Yet when Moscow does the same, it finds itself branded a pariah.  Being lectured on international law by the country that illegally invaded Iraq almost certainly irks.  In the real world, this is unlikely to happen. For this crisis to end, Kyiv and Moscow will have to reach some kind of political accommodation.  Moral and financial support from the West may be cheering for Ukraine. But it won’t be enough.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Ukrainian special forces keep watch from inside an armoured personnel carrier in the eastern Ukrainian city of Slavyansk.
			  SLOVYANSK, UKRAINE—Russia's defence minister on Thursday announced new military exercises along the Ukrainian border just hours after Ukrainian troops killed at least two pro-Russia insurgents in eastern Ukraine.  The clashes were the first since acting President Oleksandr Turchynov ordered the resumption Tuesday of military operations in eastern Ukraine, where pro-Russia protesters and masked gunmen have seized government buildings in at least 10 cities and set up roadblocks.  “If the Kyiv government is using the army against its own people this is clearly a grave crime,” Putin said.  Later in the day, Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu announced new military exercises in Russia's south and west in reaction to the mounting unrest in eastern Ukraine and NATO exercises in Poland.  Russia already has tens of thousands of troops stationed in regions along its border with Ukraine. The latest Russian military exercises will involve ground troops in the south and the west and the air forces patrolling the border, Shoigu said.  He also quoted unspecified sources saying that Kyiv has deployed more than 11,000 troops and 160 tanks against the pro-Russia insurgents which he put at less than 2,000 troops. There was no way to immediately verify those figures.  The Ukrainian government and the West have accused Russia of directing and supporting the insurgents and worry that Putin would welcome a pretext for a military intervention in eastern Ukraine. Putin denies that any Russian agents are operating in Ukraine, but insists he has the right to intervene to protect the ethnic Russians who make up a sizeable minority in eastern Ukraine.  Earlier in Tokyo, President Barack Obama accused Moscow of failing to live up to “the spirit or the letter” of a deal last week to ease tensions in eastern Ukraine. If that continues, Obama said, “there will be further consequences and we will ramp up further sanctions.”  With no appetite in the U.S. for a military response, Obama is largely banking on Putin caving under a cascade of economic sanctions targeting his closest associates. But the success of that strategy also depends on European nations with closer financial ties to Moscow taking similar action, despite their concern about a boomerang effect on their own economies.  “I understand that additional sanctions may not change Mr. Putin's calculus,” Obama said on a Tokyo visit. “How well they change his calculus in part depends on not only us applying sanctions but also the co-operation of other countries.”  The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said military and special police forces killed “up to five terrorists” while destroying three checkpoints north of Slovyansk, a city 160 kilometres west of the Russian border that has emerged as the focus of the armed insurgency. One government member was injured, the statement said.  Stella Khorosheva, a spokeswoman for the Slovyansk insurgents, said two pro-Russia fighters were killed at a checkpoint in the village of Khrestyshche, 10 kilometres north of the city. She said checks were being made at hospitals to see if there were other casualties.  The situation was quiet in Slovyansk itself, but checkpoints inside the city were abandoned and it was unclear where the pro-Russia insurgents manning them had gone.  Khorosheva later said the pro-Russian militia had regained control over the disputed checkpoints and the fighters were ready to repel any attack by government troops.  “We will defend ourselves to our last drop of blood. We are ready to repeat Stalingrad,” she told The Associated Press, invoking the memory of the Soviet army's victory over German forces in 1942-43.  At least 10 Ukrainian government armoured vehicles were seen on the road north of Slovyansk and two helicopters were circling over the area. Troops ordered residents in the area to keep away.  Near the town of Makatikha, several kilometres north of Slovyansk, pro-Russia militia set fire to barricades of car tires in an apparent attempt to reduce the visibility from the air. An Associated Press reporter saw about two dozen militiamen manning checkpoints along the road earlier in the day.  In the southeastern city of Mariupol, Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said his forces had cleared city hall of the pro-Russia protesters who had been occupying it for more than a week. He did not describe the operation. The Ukrainian city sits along the main road between Russia and Russia's newly annexed Black Sea peninsula of Crimea.  Yulia Lasazan, a spokeswoman for Mariupol's police department, told The Associated Press about 30 masked men armed with baseball bats stormed the building in the dark early Thursday and started beating the protesters. Five people were taken to a hospital, she said.  It was not clear why the protesters, some of whom were believed to be armed, did not offer resistance but called local police instead. Lasazan said the police were controlling Mariupol city hall's perimeter and were negotiating with the remaining protesters to leave.  Ukraine is going through its biggest political crisis since the fall of Soviet Union, set off by months of anti-government protests that led to President Viktor Yanukovych's flight to Russia in February.  Yanukovych's ouster sparked wide anger in his support base in Ukraine's east. The insurgents, who claim Ukraine's post-Yanukovych government consists of nationalists who will suppress the east, are demanding regional autonomy or even annexation by Russia.  Ukraine and Russia reached a deal in Geneva last week to defuse the crisis, but pro-Russian insurgents in the east — and right-wing militants in Kyiv — have defied calls for all sides to disarm and to vacate the buildings they are occupying.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  The two dominant narratives on Ukraine are by now familiar. Vladimir Putin is using Soviet bully tactics to keep satellite states in line, including this weekend’s illegal and illegitimate referendum in Crimea. The other view is that the West had been encroaching too much into the Russian neighbourhood for him not to react, and that it is hypocritical of us to be condemning him when the United States and its allies often interfere in and wage war on nations, plus support secessions selectively, as in South Sudan and East Timor. Apropos the West’s inconsistencies, let’s look at our own prime minister’s.  In 2003, Stephen Harper wanted Canada to join the American invasion of Iraq. In 2006, he backed the Israeli invasion of Lebanon as a “measured” move to protect its interests. In 2011, he was silent when Saudi Arabia marched tanks and troops into Bahrain to protect its interests. Last year, he backed France’s military intervention in its former colony of Mali. But Russia invading Crimea is akin to the 1938 Nazi annexation of part of Czechoslovakia.  Harper wants Russia booted out of the G8 but he never suggested tossing Saudi Arabia out of the G20.   He supports the Ukrainian popular revolt that toppled a corrupt president. But he did not back the popular revolt in Bahrain against an autocratic king, or the historic uprising in Egypt against the corrupt and brutal autocrat Hosni Mubarak. In fact, he backed the Egyptian army when it toppled the democratically elected president Mohammed Morsi last year. The coup restored “stability,” Harper said. That’s what Putin said, too, in embracing Egyptian strongman Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi. Putin is at least consistent — he has no use for democracy in either Egypt or Ukraine.   Putin has blamed the Ukrainian crisis on anti-Semites. Harper has characterized the critics of his stance on Israel as anti-Semites, and called the critics of his policy on Afghanistan unpatriotic.  Putin demonized the Kyiv protesters as Nazis. Harper often raises the spectre of the Nazis — besides saying that the Russian moves in Crimea are Nazi-like, he and his ministers describe those who do not fully stand with Israel and those who wish to negotiate with Iran as Nazi appeasers.  This is not to equate Harper’s political posturing with Putin’s war propaganda. Nor to pretend that national interests do not force leaders into double standards. But his hypocrisy seems driven mostly by the Conservative party’s re-election manual — hijack selected foreign policy issues in the service of pleasing targeted ethnic groups.   As valid as his criticisms of Russia’s outrageous actions have been, his pronouncements are clearly not designed to carve out a constructive role for Canada but rather tailored to elicit applause at home from Canadian Ukrainians — just as his piano-playing gig in Israel reduced the prime minister to an entertainer desperate to please his audience.  Harper’s actions on Russia parallel his approach to Iran. He recalled the Canadian ambassador to Moscow, just as he closed our embassy in Tehran. Canada does not have much power over either Iran or Russia. What little difference we can make as a mid-level western power lies in being able to mediate between the U.S. and Europe, on the one hand, and the other parties, on the other. Abandon that, and you are left with the rhetoric of escalating adjectives and symbolic gestures — Ottawa “condemns,” “strongly condemns” and “condemns in the strongest terms” and pledges $200,000, whereas what Ukraine needs is $35 billion to get out from under Russian hegemony.   The mess in Ukraine is partly the Ukrainians’ own doing.  What the nation needed, especially after the highly hopeful 2004-05 pro-democracy Orange Revolution, was a Nelson Mandela to unite its two main factions, the largely Ukrainian northwest and the largely Russian-speaking southeast. What it got instead was a Morsi — in fact, three of them, Viktor Yushchenko, Viktor Yanukovych and Yulia Tymoshenko, each serving his or her own constituency and, indeed, fanning the divisions.  It is not naive to think that Canada could have made a difference. As the first western country to recognize Ukraine in 1991, we could have advanced good governance, transparency and human rights — precisely what the pro-democracy forces in the Kyiv Maidan have been demanding for three months. Canada could have helped with sustained engagement from 1.2 million Canadian Ukrainians, the most influential Ukrainian diaspora in the world.  Instead, Ottawa, under both Liberals and Conservatives, watched as Ukraine fell under the sway of one oligarch after another. Now the prime minister is shouting empty slogans from the sidelines.  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.   
						 Why Toronto is 'hottest' city in the world for real estate for the ultra-richcomments
					  
						 Fear and sadness mark 40th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon comments
					  OTTAWA—Russia’s ambassador to Canada says talk about the possibility of Russian troops invading Ukraine is nonsense.  Georgiy Mamedov says it’s an insult to the intelligence of Canadians to even suggest that might happen in light of recent events in Kyiv.  The comments came two days after the Harper government suggested that Canada could impose sanctions against Russia if it were to interfere in Ukraine.  Immigration Minister Chris Alexander first raised the possibility of Canadian sanctions against Russia on Sunday in a televised interview.  “Whoever discusses rumours about Russian military intervention in Ukraine is committing an insult to the intellect of the Canadian public, full stop.”  “If lives and health of our compatriots are in danger, we won’t stay aside,” Slutsky said Tuesday at a meeting with activists in Simferopol, the regional capital of the Crimea. He refused to elaborate.  Tensions between the West and Russia continue to run high after Ukrainian authorities replaced their Russian-leaning President Viktor Yanukovych.  Shortly after Yanukovych fled the capital Friday, a warrant was issued for his arrest.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper was expected to make a statement Tuesday updating Canada’s position on the unrest in Ukraine.  He was also scheduled to meet with members of the Ukrainian-Canadian community.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  A standoff among pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine moves into its third day as the central government in Kiev warns it could use force to restore order. Mana Rabiee reports.  
				A masked man stands in front of barricades at an entrance to the Ukrainian regional office of the Security Service in Luhansk, 30 kilometres west of the Russian border on Wednesday.
			  MOSCOW—Russia’s President Vladimir Putin threatened Wednesday to start charging Ukraine in advance for vital gas supplies — a move that could sharply hurt his neighbour, which is already on the verge of bankruptcy.  It is just the latest way Moscow is tightening the economic screws on Ukraine since its pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych was ousted from power in February after months of street protests.  Chairing a meeting with government ministers in his suburban residence outside Moscow, Putin said asking for advance gas payments “corresponded with the contract” between Ukraine and Russia.   Russia has already eliminated a gas discount it had given Ukraine, arguing it was tied to a lease for Russia’s Black Sea Fleet base in Crimea, a Ukrainian region that Russia annexed last month. Ukraine has promised the International Monetary Fund that it will cut energy subsidies to residents in exchange for a bailout loan of up to $14 billion — so gas prices were set to rise 50 per cent on May 1 even before the latest salvo from Putin.  Speaking in Kyiv earlier, Ukrainian Energy Minister Yuri Prodan said Ukraine will pay for March deliveries of gas from Russia only after it reaches an agreement on the price.   He rejected the new, much higher price that Gazprom announced earlier and said Ukraine has not pumped in any gas from Russia so far this month.  Authorities in Kyiv also warned Wednesday that they are prepared to use force to clear several government buildings seized by pro-Russian separatists in the east of the country.  Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said the standoff in Luhansk and the two neighbouring Russian-leaning regions of Donetsk and Kharkiv must be resolved within the next two days.  “I want to repeat that there are two options: political settlement through negotiations and the use of force,” Avakov told reporters. “We are ready for both options.”  As he spoke, anti-government protesters in Luhansk erected high barricades along a thoroughfare running in front of the security service premises.  Protesters continued to occupy the headquarters of Ukraine’s Security Service in Luhansk, with hundreds of supporters camped outside and shouting “Putin! Putin!” overnight.  The security agency had said the separatists inside the building, armed with explosives and other weapons, were threatening hostages inside. The hostages — 56 in all — were allowed to leave the building overnight, it said. Local police disputed that claim, however, saying there had been no hostages.  Serhiy Tyhipko, a Ukrainian lawmaker associated with Yanukovych’s ousted government, urged the new authorities in Kyiv not to storm the building in Luhansk but rather negotiate a peaceful resolution. He said the protesters wanted Ukraine to turn into a federal state with broad regional autonomy, not for their region to secede.  “The people are not bringing up the issue of breaking off from Ukraine and are not calling for the help of foreign countries,” Tyhipko said on his Facebook page.  In the eastern Ukrainian city of Donetsk, where protesters were still occupying another government building, regional governor Serhiy Taruta met with key activists to try to find a solution to the crisis.  The Donetsk activists sounded optimistic after the talks, with leading figure Denis Bulishin hailing the opportunity for dialogue but stopping short of talking about any tangible results.  The Ukrainian government and the U.S. have accused Moscow of fomenting the unrest as a pretext for another Russian military incursion similar to last month’s takeover of Crimea. Up to 40,000 Russian troops are massed along the Ukrainian border, according to NATO.  The Russian Foreign Ministry hit back at the West on Wednesday, calling for the U.S. to stop using international organizations as a means of “exacerbating tensions surrounding Ukraine.”  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				A pro-Russian gunmen drives a car damaged in a firefight, outside the eastern Ukraine town of Slovyansk, on April 13, 2014.
			  MOSCOW—The conflict between pro-Russian gunmen and Ukraine’s authorities turned bloody on Sunday, with one security service officer killed and reports of people wounded on both sides, as the struggle for the country’s east escalated one week after separatists began systematically occupying government buildings.  Gunfire — the first reported between authorities and pro-Russian separatists in the east — erupted as Ukraine declared that it would deploy its armed forces in a “large-scale anti-terrorist operation” against the burgeoning revolt in the Donetsk region.  “The blood of Ukrainian heroes has been shed in a war which the Russian Federation is waging against Ukraine,” President Oleksandr Turchynov said in a televised address to the nation Sunday evening. “The aggressor has not stopped and is continuing to sow disorder in the east of the country.”  The armed assaults on government buildings in the eastern region, close to the Russian border, have alarmed not only leaders in Kyiv — who accuse Moscow of a co-ordinated campaign of aggression against Ukraine — but also those in the West.   The attacks, officials said, were reminiscent of the shadowy invasion of the Crimean Peninsula, which resulted in its annexation by Russia last month.  “It has all the telltale signs of what we saw in Crimea,” Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said Sunday on ABC television. “It’s professional, it’s co-ordinated, there’s nothing grassroots-seeming about it.”  If the attacks continued, she warned, the United States would intensify its sanctions against Russia.   As for the Kyiv government, it lost Crimea without firing a shot and has vowed not to repeat the mistake in eastern Ukraine.  The West has been cautioning Ukraine against starting a shooting war with the separatists for fear that it would offer Russia, which has thousands of troops gathered across the border, a pretext for invasion.   Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said, however, that he had no alternative but to begin an “anti-terrorist” campaign Sunday after days of urging the separatists to go home peacefully.  Turchynov gave the separatists a deadline of 9 a.m. Monday to vacate the buildings and leave under an amnesty. Last week, they were given a deadline of Friday to do the same. The offer was ignored.  Russia’s Foreign Ministry issued a statement Sunday night calling Ukraine’s actions “criminal” and adding that “it is now the West’s responsibility to prevent civil war in Ukraine.” The UN Security Council called an emergency meeting Sunday night, at Russia’s request, to discuss the mounting crisis.  On Sunday night, there was little evidence that Russian supporters had any inclination to retreat. Last Monday, they overran the Donetsk regional administration building and have held it ever since.   On Saturday, they took the Donetsk regional police headquarters, while men in camouflage overwhelmed the police department in Slavyansk, a town 90 kilometres from the city of Donetsk. By Sunday, they had stormed other towns in the region.  Even so, there are objections in some quarters to the invasion and the Russian news media’s coverage, which has portrayed Ukraine’s Russian speakers as under threat and in need of protection. Moscow considers the Kyiv government illegitimate, and the Russian news media routinely call it a “fascist junta” in the pay of the United States.  Trouble roiled one town after another in eastern Ukraine over the weekend. The police station, city council and prosecutor’s office in Yenakiev, 60 kilometres east of Donetsk, were seized Sunday. Former Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych, who has been accused of helping Moscow stir up unrest, comes from the town.  Yanukovych fled to Russia in February after three months of protests against his government, set off by his refusal to sign an agreement for closer co-operation with the European Union. Instead, he wanted to pursue economic ties with Russia, an inclination more popular in the Russian-speaking east than in the rest of Ukraine.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  KYIV, UKAINE—With an ominous Russian threat gathering on its doorstep, Ukraine met with yet another astonishing sight Wednesday night — the desperate public unveiling of its new provisional government in the wintry open air of Independence Square, the very heart of its fragile revolution.  In a scene that highlights where power lies — in the hands of the tens of thousands of protesters who occupy the battle-scarred Maidan — Ukraine’s temporary leadership emerged cap in hand to propose a new cabinet to carry the country through crisis until new elections in May.  The names of more than 20 new cabinet ministers were greeted alternately with jeers and cheers as they were read aloud from the main stage.   And the most important name of all was also the least likely — the nomination for temporary prime minister fell to Arseniy Yatsenyuk, who just days ago called the job “political suicide” given the soaring expectations of the street and the stark reality of a former Soviet republic facing financial, and possibly territorial, collapse.  Yatsenyuk, 39, is a former Ukrainian foreign minister who favours ties with Europe. But he has also been among the most outspoken firebrands on the Maidan, urging the mass protests onward through unrest that ultimately toppled the regime of Viktor Yanukovych, who is now a fugitive on the run.  The gesture of asking, rather than telling, the new Ukraine what comes next was underscored by the fact that none of this is yet official. But with the country on the verge of financial default and any bailout contingent upon the formation of a temporary government, the approval of Parliament seemed assured.  The drama in the Maidan played out as the teeming square flickered under the light of thousands of candles, burning onward in the memory of the 78 protesters killed last week in the infamous bloodbath that ended the Yanukovych era.  And it came not a moment too soon, capping a day that saw new geopolitical storm clouds gathering to the east as Russia announced the mobilization of thousands of troops along its volatile border with Ukraine.  Russian defence officials described the mobilization as a routine military readiness drill. But the move piqued anxieties throughout Ukraine, Europe and the United States.   Tensions in Ukraine’s Russian-dominated Crimean peninsula, meanwhile, flared as rival demonstrations clashed in the regional capital of Simferopol. An estimated 10,000 Crimean Tatars, a Muslim ethnic minority expelled during the Soviet era only later to return, chanted pro-Ukraine slogans. But as nearby gathering of pro-Russian activists swelled, a melee ensued, leaving several Russian demonstrators seriously injured and one man dead from an apparent heart attack, The Guardian reported.  Anxieties extended also to Crimean port city of Sevastopol, where a self-appointed pro-Russia militia cordoned off the main road late Wednesday, stopping cars in search of “radicals,” ABC News reported. Though the city, like the rest of Crimea, is a semi-autonomous part of Ukraine, Sevastopol is also home to a significant Soviet-era Russian naval base that continues to operate under a lease agreement.  How Ukraine will contend with all these precarious pieces depends largely on the goodwill of the thousands encamped on the Maidan. And despite this transformative events of the past week, the bitter memory of 2004’s failed Orange Revolution all but guarantees they will not budge anytime soon.   “They toppled the government, they won freedom for the political prisoners, new elections have been called and the people responsible for last week’s killings are under investigation — so what else do you want?” said Mychailo Wynnyckyj, an associate professor of sociology at Kyiv-Mohyla Academy.  “Well guess what, the people aren’t going away. They see themselves as the accountability force that will guarantee there really is a political reset. They will stay. And hey, the hardest part is behind them. Now it gets warmer. And nobody is shooting right now.”  In recent days, the already complex public spectacle in central Kyiv has slowly begun to shift with developments. Having already achieved so many of its goals — and with the prospects for formalized political power through upcoming elections now dangling in front of the many factions involved — the Maidan is rife with soapbox oratory.  And in contrast to the pat east-versus-west, Ukraine-versus-Russia framework that is so tempting to append to the Ukraine story, the speakers sharing the centre of the capital span the country’s entire political, geographic and social spectra.  Yet the main thrust of their motivations now converge broadly upon the same themes, according to Ukrainian analyst Anton Symkovych, who is studying the phenomenon from afar as a visiting scholar at University of Edinburgh School of Law.  “It is clear that most fight not for some ambiguous and contestable notion of a ‘national-liberation revolution,’ but for a constellation of causes: from the dismantling of a police state to European integration, from making Ukraine more just and less corrupt to a total political reload — and the removal of old-school politicians, both those recently in office and those in the opposition,” Symkovych wrote in an email to The Star.  And, as evidenced by the interim leadership’s move Wednesday to go directly to the people to validate its plan for what come next, the Maidan will continue to be heard. In short, Ukraine wants to be served, not ruled.  “What Ukrainians are showing at the Maidan is they want control structures, they want accountability,” said Wynnyckyj.   “The generation in power over the past 20 years, with very few exceptions, doesn’t get that. They were all raised in an era where there is an elite that rules. What Ukrainians are showing now is they don’t want to be ruled. They want to represented.”  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Troops under Russian command stand firmly after firing their weapons into the air and screaming orders to turn back at an approaching group of more than 100 unarmed Ukrainian troops at the Belbek airbase, which the Russian troops are occcupying in Crimea, Ukraine, on Tuesday.
			  MOSCOW—Accusing the West of encouraging an “unconstitutional coup” in Ukraine, Vladimir Putin said Tuesday that Moscow reserves the right to use its military to protect Russians there but hopes it won’t need to. The Russian leader’s first comments on Ukraine since its fugitive president fled came as U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry arrived in Kyiv to meet with Ukraine’s new government.  Putin declared that Western actions were driving Ukraine into anarchy and warned that any sanctions the West places on Russia for its actions there will backfire.  “We aren’t going to fight the Ukrainian people,” Putin said, adding that the massive military manoeuvres Russia had been doing involving 150,000 troops near Ukraine’s border had been previously planned and were unrelated to the current situation in Ukraine. He ordered the troops back to their bases.  The U.S. announced a $1-billion aid package Tuesday in energy subsidies to Ukraine, which faces a looming financial disaster. NATO members met in Brussels and announced that the alliance would hold talks Wednesday with Russian officials about Ukraine, while world markets rose, buoyed by Putin’s apparent efforts to de-escalate tensions.  “We are going to do our best (to help you). We are going to try very hard,” Kerry said upon arriving in Kyiv. “We hope Russia will respect the election that you are going to have.”  Ukraine’s finance minister, who says the country needs $35 billion to get through this year and next, was meeting with International Monetary Fund officials.  Tensions remained high in Crimea, with troops loyal to Moscow firing warning shots to ward off protesting Ukrainian soldiers. Heavily armed pro-Russian forces took over the strategic peninsula on Saturday, surrounding its ferry, military bases and border posts. Two Ukrainian warships remained anchored in the Crimean port of Sevastopol, blocked from leaving by Russian ships.  Yet world markets seemed to recover from their fright over Ukraine, clawing back a large chunk of Monday’s stock losses, while oil, gold, wheat and the Japanese yen gave back some of their gains. In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 200 points Tuesday on the news that Putin had pulled back troops from Ukraine’s border.  “Confidence in equity markets has been restored as the standoff between Ukraine and Russia is no longer on red alert,” said David Madden, market analyst at IG.  Putin also insisted that the Russian military deployment in Crimea has remained within the limits set by a bilateral agreement on a Russian military base there. He said Russia had no intention of annexing Crimea, but insisted its residents have the right to determine the region’s status in a referendum set for later this month.  Putin accused the West of using Yanukovych’s decision in November to ditch a pact with the EU in favour of closer ties with Russia to encourage the months of protests that drove him from power and put Ukraine’s future in turmoil.  “We have told them a thousand times ‘Why are you splitting the country?’ ” he said.  Yet he acknowledged that Yanukovych has no political future and said Russia gave him shelter only to save his life. Ukraine’s new government wants to put the fugitive leader on trial for the deaths of more than 80 people during protests last month in Kyiv.  At the House of Commons in London, British Foreign Minister William Hague rejected Putin’s arguments.  “The suggestion that a president who has fled his country then has any authority whatsoever to invite the forces of a neighbouring country into that country is baseless,” he told U.K. lawmakers.  Ukraine’s dire finances were a key issue in the protests that drove Yanukovych from power. On Tuesday, Russia’s state-controlled natural gas giant Gazprom said it will cancel a price discount on gas it sells to Ukraine. Russia had offered the discount in December as part of Russian help for Ukraine. Gazprom also said Ukraine owes it $1.5 billion.  Crimea still remained a potential flashpoint. Pro-Russian troops who had taken control of the Belbek air base in Crimea fired warning shots into the air Tuesday as around 300 Ukrainian soldiers, who previously manned the airfield, demanded their jobs back.  About a dozen soldiers at the base warned the Ukrainians, who were marching unarmed, not to approach. They fired several warning shots into the air and said they would shoot the Ukrainians if they continued to march toward them.  Part of the same compound was still being held by Ukrainians.  “We are worried. But we will not give up our base,” said Capt. Nikolai Syomko, an air force radio electrician holding an AK-47 and patrolling the back of the compound. He said the soldiers felt they were being held hostage, caught between Russia and Ukraine.  Putin said the 22,000-strong Ukrainian force in Crimea has dissolved and its arsenals have fallen into the hands of the local government. Those officials claimed Tuesday that 5,500 Ukrainian soldiers had switched their allegiance from Kyiv to them and said they were seeking to move up a vote planned for March 30 on the region’s status.  Russia is demanding the implementation of a Western-sponsored peace deal that Yanukovych signed with the opposition last month that set a new Ukrainian presidential election no later than December. Yanukovych fled the capital hours after the signing and ended up in Russia, and the Ukrainian parliament then set the vote for May 25.  John Herbst, the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine who now is director of the Center for Complex Operations at the National Defence University, told the AP it was a critical time for Europe.  “It’s a breach of international law, of national sovereignty, by a major power,” Herbst said about Russia’s actions in Crimea. “We haven’t seen such a breach in Europe since the Nazis.”  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  Foreign policy has two legitimate functions: to advance a country’s interests and/or to change the world. A country that uses foreign policy primarily to talk to itself engages in the basest form of the art: it misleads its own people into thinking they are improving the world just as key national interests are being compromised.  In the matter of Ukraine, where there are no angels, we in Canada have been unique among the nations in convincing ourselves that we are on the right side of history in near-complete abstraction from Ukraine’s deteriorating realities and at the expense of critical long-term Canadian interests.  To see how this can be so, I would urge readers to consult the Facebook page of our minister of foreign affairs. Facebook and Twitter are instructive because they are apparently where Canada does much of its important foreign policy these days. Having made devastating cuts to our real, already modest international affairs infrastructure, we have correspondingly glorified the import of virtual media in solving the world’s great problems.  On Feb. 21 of this year — a pivotal date in the crisis — the minister declared on Facebook: “Canada welcomes the agreement reached today between the Ukrainian government and opposition leaders. We will remain vigilant in monitoring progress under the agreement and stand ready to promote the full implementation of its commitments.” This was an agreement between the now ousted president Viktor Yanukovych and Ukraine’s leading opposition leaders, witnessed by France, Germany, Poland and Russia, to hold presidential elections by December of this year, reinstate the 2004 constitution and, among other things, address the problem of illegal weapons on the Maidan.   Yanukovych was overthrown within 24 hours of that agreement. We would never mention the agreement again. On the contrary, within a week, on Feb. 27, the minister declared on Facebook: “I welcome the appointment of a new government today in Ukraine ... [T]he appointment of a legitimate government is a vital step forward in restoring democracy and normalcy to Ukraine.”  If the minister declared the government legitimate, then might we safely presume it was installed according to Ukraine’s constitution? Alas, it was not: impeachment or replacement of the president requires the procedures and conditions articulated in articles 108 to 112 of the Ukrainian constitution. These were not followed, on any serious analysis.  And so we have ignored the breach of a central agreement in Ukrainian governance and arrogated unqualified legitimacy on a government of dubious constitutionality.  Who was central to the breach of the agreement and overthrow of Ukraine’s president? Answer: Pravy Sektor, the well-armed, organized and highly motivated Ukrainian militia that was pivotal to the escalation of the protests against the incompetent Yanukovych government. A scan of the minister’s Facebook page shows not a word about Pravy Sektor or any militia involvement in the Ukrainian revolution. Indeed, a survey of the tweets of leading Canadian political actors shows similar silence about Pravy Sektor. There is almost nothing written about this militia in any of the leading Canadian media sources, English and French alike.  Last week, Pravy Sektor surrounded the Ukrainian parliament to demand the resignation of the new minister of the interior. The minister bravely refused to resign. In Canada, again, incuriosity and silence. But let there be no illusions: Pravy Sektor delivered the revolution, opportunistically capitalizing on the frustrations of thousands of regular Ukrainians. The militia is not beholden to the new Ukrainian government, and may again turn on it. It will not be assimilated easily into mainstream institutions. In the meantime, a clear majority of Ukraine’s population is rightly skeptical of the legitimacy and quality of the new government, and very cognizant of the inability of the new governors to control the militias that brought them to power.  In illegally annexing Crimea, Russia, which knows Ukraine far better than any other country, has not been naive to any of these dynamics. Yet we continue to insist that we and the new Ukrainian government are somehow on the side of the angels — all in the name of the Ukrainian people. This Ukrainian government must be shocked at its good fortune in finding in us today a country that, on matters international, is really mostly interested in its own self-esteem.  The wonderful people of Ukraine are not holding their breath. They deal in bald realities, not morality plays. The people of Russia, similarly wonderful, are no different. Only that, while in the Cold War the Russians were to our “east,” today, in the context of this century’s great Arctic game and Canada’s great northern interests, the Russians are due north of us.   Irvin Studin is Editor-in-Chief of Global Brief, a policy professor at the University of Toronto, and co-founder of Ukraine’s Higher School of Public Administration.  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  The Star's Public Editor welcomes reader comments and complaints about news and feature content in the print and online editions.   
						 Why Toronto is 'hottest' city in the world for real estate for the ultra-richcomments
					  
						 Fear and sadness mark 40th anniversary of the Fall of Saigon comments
					  
				Russian armoured personnel carriers are parked on the side of the road near the town of Bakhchisarai, Ukraine, between the port city of Sevastopol and the regional capital, Sinferopol.
			  SEVASTOPOL, UKRAINE—Ukraine’s acting president urged Russian President Vladimir Putin to stop “provocations” in Crimea and pull back military forces from the peninsula.  Oleksandr Turchynov, who stepped in as president after Viktor Yanukovych fled Kyiv last weekend, said Friday that the Ukrainian military would fulfill its duty but would not be drawn into provocations.  After heavily armed men in military uniform arrived at strategic facilities in Crimea, Ukraine accused Russia of “military invasion and occupation” — a claim that brought an alarming new dimension to the crisis.  Any Russian military incursion in Crimea would dramatically raise the stakes in Ukraine’s conflict, which saw Yanukovych flee last weekend after three months of anti-government protests.   Yanukovych vowed Friday at a news conference in Russia to “keep fighting for the future of Ukraine,” though he called any military action “unacceptable.”  In Kyiv, Ukraine’s parliament adopted a resolution demanding that Russia halt steps it says are aimed against Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and it called for a UN Security Council meeting on the crisis.  The chief of Ukraine’s security council, Andriy Parubiy, seemed to strike a less strident tone, saying gunmen had tried to “seize” the airports in the Crimean cities of Simferopol and Sevastopol. However, he insisted in comments to the Interfax news agency that “the airports are controlled by the law enforcement bodies of Ukraine.”  Ukraine’s State Border Guard Service also said about 30 Russian marines from Russia’s Black Sea Fleet — which is based in Sevastopol — had taken up position outside the Ukrainian Coast Guard base in the area. It said the marines were there to prevent any weapons at the base from being seized by extremists.  AP journalists in Crimea spotted a convoy of nine Russian armoured personnel carriers and a truck on a road between Sevastopol and Simferopol, the regional capital. The Russian tricolour flags were painted on the vehicles, which were parked on the side of the road near the town of Bakhchisarai, apparently because one of them had mechanical problems.  Russia is supposed to notify Ukraine of any troop movements outside the naval base it maintains in Sevastopol under a lease agreement with Ukraine.  The Russian Foreign Ministry said movements of armoured vehicles belonging to the Russian Black Sea Fleet were prompted by the need to ensure security of its base and didn’t contradict the lease terms.  A duty officer at the Ukrainian Defence Ministry said it had no information about the vehicles’ movements.  Yanukovych made his first public appearance since fleeing Ukraine in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don, not far from the Ukrainian border. It was the first confirmation that he had left the country, and he said he was “forced” to do so only after his family received threats.  “I intend to keep fighting for the future of Ukraine,” he said.  Associated Press journalists approaching the Sevastopol airport found the road leading up to it blocked by two military trucks and a handful of gunmen wearing camouflage uniforms and carrying assault rifles.  A car with Russian military plates was stopped at the roadblock. A man wearing a military uniform with a Russian flag on his sleeve got out of the car and was allowed to enter on foot after a brief discussion with the gunmen.  At the airport serving Simferopol, commercial flights were landing and taking off despite dozens of armed men in military uniforms without markings patrolling with assault rifles. They didn’t stop or search people leaving or entering the airport, and refused to talk to journalists.  One man who identified himself only as Vladimir said the men were part of the Crimean People’s Brigade, which he described as a self-defence unit ensuring that no “radicals and fascists” arrive from other parts of Ukraine. There was no way to verify his account.  The airport deployments came a day after masked gunmen with rocket-propelled grenades and sniper rifles seized the parliament and government offices in Simferopol and raised the Russian flag. Ukrainian police cordoned off the area but didn’t confront the gunmen. They remained in control of the buildings Friday.  The Russian foreign and defence ministries had no comment. Russia’s state RIA Novosti and Interfax cited an unidentified official from the Russian Black Sea Fleet denying involvement, saying Russian servicemen stationed in Crimea have not moved into the airports and denying that the Russian military was in control there.  Tensions between the two countries were high, however. Russia continued with massive combat readiness exercises involving most of its troops in western and southern Russia that it said were unrelated to the Ukraine conflict. The moves were reminiscent of Cold War brinksmanship.  The Kremlin, in a statement published late Thursday, said Putin had instructed the government to “maintain contacts with the counterparts in Kyiv in what concerns trade and economic ties between Russia and Ukraine.”  Moscow has been sending mixed signals about Ukraine but pledged to respect its territorial integrity. Putin has long dreamed of pulling Ukraine, a country of 46 million people considered the cradle of Russian civilization, closer into Moscow’s orbit.  Meanwhile, Swiss prosecutors announced they had launched a criminal investigation against Yanukovych and his son Aleksander over “aggravated money laundering.” They said police and Geneva’s chief prosecutor conducted a search and seized documents Thursday at the premises of a company owned by Aleksander Yanukovych.  Ukraine’s population is divided in loyalties between Russia and the West, with much of western Ukraine advocating closer ties with the European Union while eastern and southern regions look to Russia for support.  Crimea, a southeastern peninsula of Ukraine that has semi-autonomous status, was seized by Russian forces in the 18th century under Catherine the Great, and was once the crown jewel in Russian and then Soviet empires.  It became part of Ukraine in 1954 when Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev transferred jurisdiction from Russia, a move that was a mere formality until the 1991 Soviet collapse meant Crimea landed in an independent Ukraine.  In a bid to shore up Ukraine’s fledgling administration, the International Monetary Fund has said it is “ready to respond” to Ukraine’s bid for financial assistance; Ukraine’s finance ministry has said it needs $35 billion over the next two years to avoid default.  The European Union is also considering emergency loans for a country that is the chief conduit of Russian natural gas to western Europe.  And Putin, in his statement, asked his government to “hold consultations with foreign partners including the IMF and the G8 nations to provide financial aid to Ukraine.”  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Ukraine is holding its presidential election on May 25. Prime Minister Stephen Harper says Canada will send up to 500 people to monitor the election next month.
			  KYIV, UKRAINE—Ottawa is washing its hands of an “unfortunate” pay dispute that has sparked rebellion in the advance team for Canada’s ambitious mission to monitor the upcoming Ukrainian election.  The first wave of 15 Canadian observers already on the ground is the pointy tip of a civilian deployment that will eventually number 500 Canadians for Ukraine’s crucial presidential vote on May 25.  But on Monday, the advance team went public with a story of broken promises, accusing bureaucrats of tearing up their financial agreement after the fact and imposing a frugal new compensation package that some say will leave them subsidizing the mission out of their own pockets.  “We have put ourselves in potential danger and the bureaucrats are reneging on signed contracts. Maybe they should come over here and discuss the situation with the ‘green men,’ ” team member Peter Chabursky told the Star, alluding to the mysterious masked gunmen who have seized control of a dozen cities and towns in east Ukraine.  Ottawa doesn’t dispute that the observers feel deceived and that promises were broken — but federal bureaucrats say the source of their grievance is Canadem, a struggling Ottawa-based non-profit organization co-ordinating the civilian mission on their behalf.  Halfway through the first-wave deployment, Canadian observers in Ukraine were shocked to learn that their compensation package would be slashed. Each observer would continue to receive an honorarium of $150 a day. But an additional per diem of €195 (nearly $300) a day to cover the cost of hotels, meals and incidentals — the norm for missions involving the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe — would fall by as much as two-thirds.  Canadem executive director Paul LaRose-Edwards apologized to the group in an email obtained by the Star, saying, “We are as caught out as you.”   Foreign Affairs took exception to LaRose-Edwards’ email in a statement to the Star, suggesting Canadem made promises it was never in a position to make, and then wrongly blamed the government.  “Canadem’s email to stakeholders is misleading and unfortunate and the head of the organization acknowledged to DFATD officials last week that this payment error was their mistake,” the statement said.  “The provisions for reimbursement were clearly stated in the contribution agreement with Canadem before observers were deployed, and this was further clarified with the organization two weeks ago.”  Canada’s 15-member advance delegation, composed of veteran aid workers with past experience as election observers, is the largest team in the 100-member international Long Term Observer Mission already on the ground in Ukraine. The mission also includes a dozen Americans and observers from the U.K., Poland, Scandinavia and western Europe. They role is the make initial contact with Ukrainian electoral offices, courts and other officials to lay the groundwork for the arrival of short term observers in May.  The Canadian delegation said the new rules, which adopt National Joint Council rates for meals and incidentals, now require them to somehow retroactively collect hotel receipts for the first half of their time in Ukraine. If they cannot obtain receipts after the fact, they will be compensated at a lower rate that may not cover their out-of-pocket expenses.  But the prospects of Canadem making good on its original agreement with the observers appear slim. Larose-Edwards, in the email obtained by the Star, acknowledged, “Legally, Canadem does not have a leg to stand on.”  Having already laid off half its staff this year and slashed the salaries of those who remain, he said, Canadem is not in a position to absorb the loss.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				Soldiers without identifying insignia stand next to a Russian-made Kamaz military truck  in the Crimean port of Feodosiya. Witnesses said Russian soldiers had blockaded about 400 Ukrainian marines at a base and asked them to surrender.
			  KYIV—Warning that it is “on the brink of disaster,” Ukraine’s interim government put its military on high alert Sunday and appealed for international help to avoid what it feared was a possible Russian invasion of its eastern provinces.  Elsewhere, international leaders, worried that Europe’s borders were suddenly being rewritten by force, rushed to find a diplomatic solution to the dispute.  But there was no denying what had already happened on the ground: Moscow had overrun the Black Sea peninsula without firing a shot — and the mostly ethnic-Russian eastern regions could be next to fall.  In Kharkiv, the country’s second largest city, only 30 kilometres from the eastern border, a sprawling pro-Russian protest camp occupied the central square, and Russian flags were on display. Many in the city said they would prefer that Russian troops invade rather than submit to Kyiv’s rule.  “I would welcome them with flowers,” said Alexander Sorokin, 55, a pensioner walking by riot police guarding the administration building. “We do not want to spill blood, but we are willing to do so.”  Russia’s gloves come off as the insignia go on  Faced with this cascade of threats, Ukraine’s new government moved to consolidate its authority. It named new regional governors in the pro-Russia east, enlisted the support of the country’s wealthy businessmen and dismissed the country’s naval chief after he declared allegiance to the pro-Russian regional government in Crimea.  Officials said they were hoping these moves would dampen secessionist hopes in the east and keep violent outbreaks — like clashes between pro-Western and pro-Russian protesters in Kharkiv on Saturday that put at least 100 people in the hospital — from providing a rationale for an invasion by Moscow in the name of protecting ethnic Russians.  At the same time, they sought international help.  “We believe that our western partners and the entire global community will support the territorial integrity and unity of Ukraine,” Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said Sunday in Kyiv  Saying Russia had no good reason to invade Ukraine, he warned that “we are on the brink of disaster.”  “This is the red alert. This is not a threat, this is actually a declaration of war to my country.”  What began three months ago as a protest against the government of pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych has unexpectedly turned into a big-power confrontation reminiscent of the Cold War and a significant challenge to international agreements on the sanctity of the borders of post-Soviet nations.  NATO held an emergency meeting Sunday in Brussels, Britain’s foreign minister flew to Kyiv to support its new government, and the Group of Seven nations said they were suspending plans for the next G8 economic summit, scheduled for Sochi in June.  In Kyiv, Moscow and other cities, thousands of protesters took to the streets to either decry the Russian occupation or celebrate Crimea’s return to its former ruler.  “Support us, America!” a handful of protesters chanted outside the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv. One young girl held a placard reading: “No Russian aggression!”  In Moscow, at least 10,000 people bearing Russian flags and chanting “Russia! Russia!” marched freely through the city Sunday in support of the Crimea takeover.   “We understand that the West wants to attack us and seize this territory. (The West) is dangerous to us,” said Victor Sidelin, one of those marching.  About 260 people demonstrating in Red Square against the invasion were quickly detained by riot police.  NATO issued a statement saying it “condemns Russia’s military escalation in Crimea” and demanding that Russia respect its obligations under the UN charter. Ukraine is not a NATO member, meaning the U.S. and Europe are not obligated to come to its defence, but the country has taken part in some alliance exercises.  Putin has defied calls from the West to pull back his troops, insisting Russia has a right to protect its interests and those of Russian-speakers in Crimea and elsewhere in Ukraine.  His confidence is matched by the knowledge that Ukraine’s 46 million people have divided loyalties. While much of western Ukraine wants closer ties with the 28-nation European Union, its eastern and southern regions like Crimea look to Russia for support.  Russia has long wanted to reclaim the lush Crimean Peninsula, part of its territory until 1954. Russia’s Black Sea Fleet pays Ukraine millions every year to be stationed at the Crimean port of Sevastopol and nearly 60 per cent of Crimea’s residents identify themselves as Russian.  On Sunday Moscow kept up its propaganda campaign in defence of the Crimean takeover, citing undefined threats to Russian citizens and proclaiming large defections of Ukrainian forces in Crimea, which Western reporters said appeared to be unfounded.  During a phone conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Putin “directed her attention to the unrelenting threat of violence from ultranationalist forces (in Ukraine) that endangered the life and legal interests of Russian citizens,” according to a Kremlin statement.  Ukraine’s new government came to power last week following months of pro-democracy protests against Yanukovych and his decision to turn Ukraine toward Russia instead of the EU. Yanukovych fled to Russia after over 80 people were killed in the protests. He insists he’s still president.  The acting president, Oleksandr Turchynov, put the country’s armed forces on alert and stepped up security at nuclear plants, airports and other strategic locations. The government also issued a decree to begin calling up reservists for training but no overt military actions by Ukraine have been seen.  Turchynov also appointed 18 new regional governors, including two oligarchs in the eastern cities of Dneprotrovsk and Donetsk, as big business and the new government united against Moscow. Ukraine’s richest man, Rinat Akhmetov, called Russia’s use of force “impermissible.”  Russian troops, meanwhile, pulled up to the Ukrainian military base at Perevalne on the Crimean Peninsula in a convoy Sunday that included at least 13 trucks and four armoured vehicles with mounted machine-guns. The trucks carried 30 soldiers each and had Russian licence plates.  In response, a dozen Ukrainian soldiers, some with clips in their rifles, placed a tank at the base’s gate, leaving the two sides in a tense standoff. It appeared to be the first known case of outmatched Ukrainians standing up to Russian military might.  Unidentified soldiers were also seen cutting power to the headquarters of Ukrainian Naval forces in Crimea — whose own commander defected later Sunday.  In Kyiv, a Ukrainian security official said Adm. Denis Berezovsky had been dismissed and faces a treason investigation after declaring his allegiance to the pro-Russian government of the Crimea region.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				After Sunday's attack at a checkpoint in eastern Ukraine, images quickly appeared on Russian TV, purporting to show evidence somehow retrieved intact from two smouldering attack vehicles — a bundle of U.S. dollars, Nazi-era weaponry, a satellite map of the region and a telltale business card bearing the name of the Right Sector, a Ukrainian ultranationalist group.
			  BYLBASOVKA, UKRAINE—First came the bullets. Then, almost as quickly, the fog of war — dense, dubious, yet debatable — draped over the scene, adding truth to the list of Ukraine’s latest casualties.  What we can say with a high degree of certainty is that here in the most volatile region of eastern Ukraine, a local population enraged over an Easter Sunday shootout that killed at least one of their own now feels even greater affinity with Russia — even if Moscow itself may have been behind the attack.  Contradictions abound in the details of the early morning raid on a remote checkpoint 14 kilometres northwest of the separatist-occupied city of Slovyansk.   The audacious attack shattered an Easter truce, killing, according to the earliest accounts, as many as five men.   Images emerged quickly on Russian television, showing a trove of evidence that was somehow retrieved unblemished from two smouldering attack vehicles — a bundle of U.S. dollars, Nazi-era weaponry, a satellite map of the region and a telltale business card bearing the name of the Right Sector, the Ukrainian ultranationalist group that swiftly bore the brunt of Moscow’s blame.  Ukraine has failed to disarm “separatists and terrorists,” enabling the Right Sector to unleash chaos in the east, Russia’s Foreign Ministry charged.  Kyiv countered quickly, accusing Moscow of staging a crude, made-for-TV provocation. The Right Sector’s spokesman, Artem Skoropadsky, said the attack was “clearly carried out by Russian special forces.  Here at the scene near the hamlet of Bylbasovka, TV crews arrived, gobbled up the contradictions and left. But the Toronto Star lingered. And with the afternoon sun there came a gradual parade of villagers bearing bundles of carnations and tulips. Not a show for the cameras — ours was the only one left — but an actual outpouring of grief and respect for a much-loved local man, Sergei Rodenko, 53, who was killed at the checkpoint.  “Sergei was our very good friend — he drove the school bus,” said Olga Lugavienka, whose three children all rode Rodenko’s bus. Her eldest son, now 21, had routinely been at Rodenko’s side working overnight shifts at the checkpoint, which sprang up two weeks ago to protect the village when the anti-Kyiv unrest erupted. But on this fateful night, he took a break, attending the midnight Easter church service instead.  Others from the village spoke of the vulnerability of the local roadblock, insisting that those manning it were virtually unarmed.  “They had no guns, just sticks. Why shoot a man who only holds a stick?” he said, reaching down to pick up one of the weapons in question — a chunk of tree branch wrapped in duct tape.  Rednytsky said he arrived on the scene immediately following Sunday’s 2 a.m. attack and found two bodies. He recognized only Rodenko’s, which lay lifeless with a bullet hole between the eyes. “Like a sniper shot,” said Rednytsky. A third victim, he said, died en route to hospital.  Rednytsky was unable to explain other inconsistencies. How did two of the attacking vehicles — two others were said to have escaped — come to be engulfed in fire? Another villager suggested the checkpoint crew had not just sticks but Molotov cocktails at their disposal.  Nor can they explain who the other victims were. But the loss of bus driver Rodenko — and the anger it engendered — was all they needed to trump all doubt. Everyone here agreed this was doubtless the work of the Right Sector. And the final straw, said Rednytsky, for peace with Kyiv.  The checkpoint was the outermost of a cluster of barriers created by pro-Russia activists now in control of Slovyansk, a once-thriving industrial city of 150,000 that today suffers high unemployment amid shuttered factories.  The town was edgy before Sunday’s attack, beset by what Ukraine’s Interior Ministry calls an increasing influx of armed gangsters. Before declaring a nighttime curfew Sunday, self-styled “people’s mayor” Vyacheslav Ponomaryov, who leads the local insurgency, issued a call for help from Moscow, once again tweaking Ukrainian fears that Russian soldiers will soon be marching this way.  “I want to ask the Russian government and Vladimir Putin to send us help,” said Ponomaryov.  “If you can’t send peacekeepers, help us by sending food, weapons, everything you can. Our people are ready to stand until the end to protect our land from the fascist invasion.”  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  The president has reportedly left his palace in Kiev a day after he reached a deal with opposition leaders aimed at ending the long-running crisis.  The political landscape in Ukraine has flipped again, less than one day after a compromise was signed to end a week of bloody violence in the capital of Kyiv.  New elections were announced for May 25. The president’s chief political rival was freed from prison, and the head of the Ukrainian army has vowed not to get involved.  However, the future remains uncertain. Yanukovych is crying foul about what he termed a coup d’etat, saying he would not recognize any of the lawmakers’ decisions, even though the parliamentary vote to impeach him was overwhelming.   An emotional Yulia Tymoshenko made her way from prison in eastern Ukraine to Independence Square to address the pro-democracy movement that secured her freedom after more than two years behind bars.  “The people who died here are the heroes,” Tymoshenko told protesters from a wheelchair. She developed severe back problems when she was in prison, some of that time served in solitary confinement.  Yanukovych has fled to Kharkiv in the country’s Russian-speaking east and the base of his political power.  “They are trying to scare me. I have no intention to leave the country. I am not going to resign; I’m the legitimately elected president,” a shaken Yanukovych said in a televised statement.  Nearly 100 people died and hundreds more were injured after pro-European demonstrators, known as the Euromaidan, named after central Kyiv’s Independence Square, stood up to Yanukovych’s political regime, demanding he resign for failing to uphold the people’s wishes and form closer ties to Europe.   But the demonstrations turned horrific this past week as government forces fired live ammunition against the demonstrators and gangs of roving government-backed thugs marched through the streets of Kyiv.  The crisis now shifts away from the capital to the east and Crimea in the south — both Russian speaking areas — where there are rumblings that some regions may ask Russia for assistance.  The quickly shifting political landscape in Ukraine now threatens the security of all Eastern and Central Europe, and some fear the country could divide between those loyal to Moscow and those leaning towards Europe.  All of the upheaval in Ukraine comes not even a day after a compromise was brokered by Germany, Poland and France and signed by Yanukovych and the opposition.   The pact saw Yanukovych’s power reduced to 2004 levels, led to a coalition government and paved the way to ending the violence that has shook Kyiv for the past week.  That agreement, which was not welcomed by many demonstrators in Independence Square, is now effectively void. The Russian witness to the deal also refused to sign it.  Russia had offered to financially rescue the cash-strapped nation of 46 million, but only if the former Soviet bloc country turned away from greater economic ties with the EU.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  But the most significant facet of a six-hour show of solidarity was the Canadian prime minister’s final transformation into the Hawk of Sussex Dr. on the question of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s seizing of the Crimea.  Harper — the first G7 leader to visit Ukraine since the crisis began — used blunt language while standing beside Ukraine’s interim prime minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, accusing Putin of acting in a manner that will destabilize international security, give courage to other rogue states and return the world to the “law of the jungle.”  He maintained that nothing less than the complete reversal of the Russian occupation of the Crimea — a deal now signed, sealed and delivered by Putin and one which much of the world appears to have grudgingly accepted — will suffice.  And he left no doubt he wants Russia permanently booted from the G8 — a sentiment he first expressed at an Irish summit last June when he denounced Russian intransigence on stopping the butchery in Syria in his relabelling of the alliance as the “G7 plus one.”  Harper has already compared the Crimean annexation to the Nazis in the run-up to the Second World War, cementing him up as the angry man of the G7.  It is a sentiment Harper will take Monday to The Hague, where U.S. President Barack Obama is convening a summit on Ukraine on the margins of a global nuclear summit.  As one of the deans of the G7, along with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Harper will be heard.  He may not be heeded because his case is largely unfettered by the realities of European capitals, but he will be heard.  “All of us who desire peace and stability in the world must recognize that the consequences of these actions will be felt far beyond the borders of Ukraine, or even the European continent itself,” Harper said.  The prime minister, who flew in from The Hague Saturday morning and returned there in the evening, said in his meeting with Yatsenyuk that Putin, by repudiating the Budapest Memorandum, “has provided a rationale for those elsewhere who needed little more encouragement than that already furnished by pride or grievance to arm themselves to the teeth.’’  Yatsenyuk went even further in denouncing the Crimea “robbery,” mentioning Iran and North Korea as two countries which will find encouragement in Putin’s actions.  Harper also paid a courtesy visit to acting president Oleksandr Turchynov. “You have provided inspiration and a new chapter in humanity’s ongoing story of the struggle for freedom, democracy and justice,” he told him.   Ottawa has provided $220 million in aid to the interim Ukrainian government and has slapped travel bans and economic sanctions on dozens of officials and oligarchs aligned with Putin and the former Viktor Yanukovych government.  Later in the day, Harper, along with Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird, Justice Minister Peter MacKay and members of the Ukranian Canadian diaspora travelling with him, placed carnations at a shrine in memory of the martyrs of the Maidan, just off Independence Square.  PHOTOS:Protesters at the square  The protests began in late November when Yanukovych accepted $15 billion in aid from Russia and turned Ukraine’s back on talks with the European Union. More than 100 people were killed in violence in Kyiv.  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				A pro-Russian militant holding a bat guards a barricade in front of the Donetsk regional administration building on Tuesday.
			  DONETSK, UKRAINE—Ukraine’s government struggled to stay in control of the country’s eastern regions as tensions flared Tuesday in three cities.   While the government managed to recapture its regional headquarters and detain dozens of pro-Russian protesters in one city, it said “radicals” were keeping 60 people hostage in another city.  Unknown “separatists” with weapons and explosives were threatening the hostages inside a security service branch in the city of Luhansk, the Ukrainian Security Service said in a statement Tuesday.  It was not clear who the hostages were or if they were security service employees. The building was seized Sunday by armed pro-Russian protesters.  Earlier Tuesday, Ukrainian authorities battled with pro-Russian protesters but regained control over a government building in Kharkiv, the country’s second-largest city, evicting the protesters and detaining dozens.  In Donetsk, a city 250 kilometres further south, protesters dug in for their third day at the 11-storey regional administration headquarters they captured on Sunday and began to declare their own parallel government.  Serhiy Taruta, the governor of Donetsk, scoffed at the shifting events in his city.  “I call this a theatre of the absurd,” he said. “It is just artists performing, but the main thing is that there is an ever-dwindling audience.”  All three cities are in Ukraine’s east, where hostility is strong toward the government that took power in February after the ouster of Kremlin-friendly President Viktor Yanukovych.   Even though Ukraine’s interim authorities have achieved some success in quelling the unrest that swept across eastern provinces Sunday, festering discontent threatens to undermine plans to hold a presidential election on May 25.  “What we see from Russia is an illegal and illegitimate effort to destabilize a sovereign state and create a contrived crisis with paid operatives across an international boundary,” Kerry told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  Kerry called the demonstrations in eastern Ukraine a “contrived pretext for military intervention just as we saw in Crimea.”  Addressing parliament in Kyiv, acting President Oleksandr Turchynov said security forces retook control of the Kharkiv administration building early Tuesday but several police were injured in the clashes with separatists.  Interior Minister Arsen Avakov described the measure on his Facebook page as an “anti-terrorist operation.”  
      'AN ANTI-TERRORIST OPERATION': Ukrainian Interior Minister Arsen Avakov, left, praised security forces Tuesday for retaking control of the Kharkiv administration building on his Facebook page.
      In a session briefly interrupted by a brawl, parliament also voted to toughen the punishment for undermining Ukraine’s national security, imposing jail terms of up to five years for separatism.  In Donetsk, there was little sign Tuesday evening that government forces had any immediate plan to retake the regional administration building.   No clear leader or agenda has emerged from the obscure group of pro-Russian Donetsk activists behind the standoff.  A declaration adopted Monday claimed sovereignty for what they called the “Donetsk Republic” and demanded a referendum to be held no later than May 11. While none of them have said they necessarily want the region to join Russia, they have also declined to rule out the option.  Even as the United States warned Russia of more sanctions, the White House announced a high-level meeting among U.S., EU, Ukrainian and Russian diplomats in the coming days to try to solve the crisis.  In Moscow, Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Tuesday that the date and format of the four-way talks hadn’t yet been agreed. He suggested that Ukraine’s presidential candidates could be invited to join the negotiations.  The Kremlin has pushed for a constitutional reform in Ukraine that would turn the country into a federation with broad powers for its regions and ensure its neutrality. The demands reflected Russia’s desire to maintain influence over its neighbour and prevent Ukraine from joining NATO.  
      The flag of the so-called Donetsk Federative Republic waves above a barricade and a crowd gathered in front of the Donetsk regional administration building, held by pro-Russian militants, on Tuesday.
      Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is…  
				A man with a Russian flag greets armed men in military fatigues blocking access to a Ukrainian border guards base not far from the village of Perevalne near Simferopol in Crimea on Monday.
			  In an urgently worded letter to the UN Security Council Monday, Ukraine detailed Russia’s steady advances in Crimea, including a naval blockade of Ukrainian navy ships, the capture of military and border facilities, and delivery of a supposed ultimatum for the surrender of Ukraine’s forces on the peninsula.  Meanwhile, threats and condemnations from the U.S. and European capitals have had little effect. And Moscow’s relentless takeover of its onetime territory underscored the extent to which the levers of power over Russia have slipped out of Western hands.  In the U.S., calls for strong action were loudest. James Stavridis, NATO’s former Supreme Allied Commander, wrote in Foreign Policy that “hope is not a strategy and further action should be considered.”  He urged an emergency session of the 28-member alliance to consider options such as sending up spy drones and sharing information with Ukraine; gearing up NATO operations for a full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine, raising the NATO Response Force to higher alert and sailing its maritime forces into the Black Sea.  Russia is gambling that the West’s response will be far lower-key — and with good reason.  “The credibility of Western leaders was taken back because of the ‘red line’ that was crossed in Syria, (with chemical weapons)” says Thomas Scotto of University of Essex, who has conducted research in the U.S. and Britain on public attitudes to military involvement overseas.  There was little public outcry when American and other leaders backed down, says Scotto. “I don’t see that there is any move among the public for open conflict. A lot of what has happened in the Middle East made people in the U.S. and Britain fatigued with wars.”  European countries are also divided on the stiffness of sanctions against Russia, which has multi-billion-dollar energy contracts with Europe, as well as murky financial dealings.  President Vladimir Putin “knows that European bureaucrats will issue shrill statements and then get back to business helping Russian elites buy London town houses and French chateaux,” says Ben Judah, author of Fragile Empire, in Politico Magazine. “He knows full well that the United States can no longer force Europe to trade in a different way . . . he thinks he has nothing to lose.”  Gordon Smith, a distinguished fellow of the Centre for International Governance Innovation, agrees that threats to expel Russia from the elite financial club “won’t cause Putin to lose one minute’s sleep.”  Smith, a G-7/G-8 “Sherpa” under Prime Minister Jean Chrétien in the 1990s, recalled the debate over allowing Russia to join the group of wealthy nations. “There was controversy about whether it was premature, and doubts that Russia could participate as a fully fledged democracy. Now we’ve come full circle.”  “Three things about Putin are very clear,” says Russia expert Piotr Dutkiewicz, of Carleton University, who has met the Russian leader 10 times.  “First, if he makes a decision he sticks to it. Second, he’s very pragmatic, and not driven by emotion or ideology. Third, he can be persuaded to adjust if the arguments on the table coincide with his sense of Russia’s national interest.”  That is the opening for negotiation, Dutkiewicz says — and possibly the only way of ending the standoff. But the terms may be hard for both Ukraine and the West to swallow.  They could include accepting more autonomy for Crimea and Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine, giving the Russian Black Sea fleet a permanent base in Crimea, allowing Ukraine’s government to sign Putin’s coveted customs agreement with Russia in addition to an EU pact, and earmarking cabinet positions for Russian-speakers in Kyiv, he said.  But he admits, “nobody really knows what Putin thinks. He’s one of the few world leaders who keeps his decisions completely to himself  Not everything at the Pan Am Games is on budget and on time  Emotions can run high when helping the k…  Proper soil preparation in the garden is… 