Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said Saturday that his country is not on the verge of collapse and that Russian-backed separatists continue to attack Ukrainian soldiers despite a recent cease fire agreement.
Yatsenyuk's comments come about one week after European leaders brokered a cease fire in the roughly 10-month conflict between Russia and Ukraine in the eastern region of the country.
A top European Union official said Thursday that the 28-member bloc will provide armored cars and satellite imagery to monitor the cease fire but is undecided on whether to commit troops to a proposed United Nations-mandated peacekeeping mission.
Maciej Popowski, deputy secretary general for External Action Service, said "there needs to be more clarity" on the proposal by Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko before the EU could decide on sending troops.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian military and separatist representatives on Saturday night exchanged dozens of prisoners
Roughly 140 Ukrainian troops and 52 rebels were exchanged, according to a separatist official overseeing the swap.
He spoke to reporters after a meeting of the EU's defense ministers in Riga.
France's Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said separately the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe would be sending some 400 cease fire observers to Ukraine
The EU and NATO have urged the pro-Russia separatists to allow OSCE observes to monitor the shaky cease-fire deal.
Earlier this week, the Russia-backed separatists captured the key rail transportation city of Debaltseve, which was considered a crushing defeat for Ukraine and a sign the country was indeed on the verge of at least a military collapse.
Ukrainian soldiers retreated on Thursday from Debaltseve but not before 13 were killed and 157 were wounded in the fighting, according to Kiev officials.
“But let me provide you a bigger scope, what's really the ultimate goal of President Putin
..
He's fighting with all of us.”
He also repeated his plea for Western allies to supply weapons to the out-gunned Ukrainian forces.
“We have to defend ourselves,” Yatsenyuk said
“Russia is constantly supplying tanks, surface-to-air missiles and the rest of the stuff
And again everyone knows this
We still use outdated Soviet-style equipment.”
Ukrainian border guards retreated Thursday as two columns of Russian tanks streamed into the nation, prompting fears that Russia is creating a land link between its territory and Crimea.
They later entered Ukraine from Veselo-Voznesenka and Maximovo of the Rostov region in Russia.
The incursion reported Thursday continues several weeks of Russian military action in Ukraine
Tanks, armor and soldiers have been streaming across the border, and on Thursday, NATO released several images from last week that show purported Russian tank columns.
"This is like watching a frog boil," a Pentagon official told Fox News
"They turn up the heat."
"We have never hidden from anybody (the fact) there are many Russians among us," Alexander Zakharchenko, the prime minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk Poeple's Republic, said at a press conference
"Without their help it would be very difficult for us to fight."
Brig
Gen
Nico Tak, a top NATO official, told reporters at NATO headquarters that the ultimate aim of Russia was to stave off defeat for the separatists and turn eastern Ukraine into a "frozen conflict" that would destabilize the country "indefinitely."
NATO estimated that another 20,000 Russian troops were right over the Russian border.
Tak said the 1,000 Russian troops operating inside Ukraine was a conservative estimate and provided satellite imaginary showing an incursion of great sophistication
He refused to specify exactly what the "contact" with Ukrainian troops was.
Alexander Zakharchenko told Russian television that he estimated that between 3,000 and 4,000 Russians had joined the ranks, and claimed that they were either former Russian service members or current military personnel on leave, according to the BBC
However, he also insisted that any Russians who went to flight did so voluntarily and not on orders from superiors in Moscow.
Russia's ambassador to the EU, Vladimir Chizhov, told the BBC that "NATO has never produced a single piece of evidence" of Russian troops operating in Ukraine
He said the only Russian soldiers in Ukraine were the 10 captured this week, who Moscow insists had mistakenly wandered across the border.
The Russian Defense Ministry didn't directly deny its troops were in Ukraine, but said the list of Russian military units said to be operating in Ukraine had no relation to reality.
A senior U.S
defense official also told Fox News that the Pentagon has seen evidence that Russia has fired artillery inside Ukrainian territory at Ukraine military positions in recent days.
"This is not the first time," the official said
However, U.S
officials are not ready to declare that Russia has begun invading Ukraine.
U.S
Ambassador to Ukraine Geoffrey Pyatt posted the following statement in three Twitter messages Thursday: "Russian supplied tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and multiple rocket launchers have been insufficient to defeat Ukraine's armed forces
So now an increasing number of Russian troops are intervening directly in fighting on Ukrainian territory
Russia has also sent its newest air defense systems including the SA-22 into eastern Ukraine & is now directly involved in the fighting."
Ukraine and its Western allies have repeatedly accused Russia of providing weapons and training to the rebels, who declared independence from Kiev in two eastern districts this past April following Russia's annexation of the Crimean peninsula
Moscow, in turn has repeatedly denied the accusations.
Joseph Dempsey, an analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, said recent images of a military convoy in eastern Ukraine showed the presence of a variant of the T-72 tank which "is not known to have been exported or operated outside of Russia."
The tanks' presence, he added in a blog published Thursday, "strongly supports the contention that Russia is supplying arms to separatist forces."
Zakharchenko's admission that Russians had joined the ranks came as the rebels appeared to have captured the strategic town of Novoazovsk in southeastern Ukraine
On Thursday morning, an Associated Press journalist saw rebel checkpoints at the outskirts and was told he could not enter
One of the rebels said there was no fighting in the town.
Novoazovsk, which lies along the road connecting Russia to the Crimean peninsula, had come under shelling for three days, with the rebels entering on Wednesday.
The southeastern portion of Ukraine along the Azov Sea previously had escaped the fighting engulfing areas to the north
The loss of Novoazovsk could open the way for the rebels to advance on the much larger port of Mariupol.
The new southeastern front raises fears that the separatists are seeking to create a land link between Russia and Crimea
If successful, it could give them or Russia control over the entire Sea of Azov and the gas and mineral riches that energy experts believe it contains
Ukraine already has lost roughly half its coastline, several major ports and significant Black Sea mineral rights in March when Russia annexed Crimea.
President Petro Poroshenko announced in a statement published online Thursday that he was canceling a visit to Turkey for the inauguration of newly elected president Recep Tayyip Erdogan and called a snap session of Ukraine's security council.
"I have decided to cancel my visit to Turkey because of the sharp escalation of the situation in the Donetsk region..
as Russian forces have entered Ukraine," he said.
"Destabilization of the situation and panic, this is as much of a weapon of the enemy as tanks," Poroshenko told the security council, according to the Interfax news agency.
U.N
Undersecretary-General of Political Affairs Jeffrey Feltman opened a meeting of the U.N
Security Council Thursday telling members the latest developments mark a "dangerous escalation in the conflict."
Power reminded the council that the meeting was "the 24th session to try to rein in Russia's aggressive acts in the Ukraine."
"Every single one has sent a straightforward, unified message: 'Russia, stop this conflict
Russia is not listening,'" she said, adding that Russia's force along the border is the largest it's been since it started deploying in late May.
Psaki added that the U.S
could increase economic sanctions against Russia
But she said no such decisions have been made
And to help Ukraine, she said Washington is focused on nonlethal forms of assistance and not military equipment.
Also on Thursday, a pro-government militia fighter told Reuters that in addition to taking Novoazovsk, the rebels had captured a strategic hill just east of Donetsk, one of two major rebel strongholds that Ukrainian forces had surrounded in recent weeks.
The recent reversals by Kiev's forces have prompted claims from Ukraine that Russian forces have crossed the border in an effort to open a new front and prevent pro-government forces from dealing a decisive blow to the rebels in Donetsk and Luhansk.
In Donetsk, 11 people were killed by shelling during the night, the city administration said in a statement.
Click for more from the BBC.
KIEV, Ukraine –  Russian military forces have been spotted in both major rebel-held cities in eastern Ukraine, an official said Tuesday, prompting Ukraine to declare it now has to fight the Russian army, not just the separatists.
The statement on the Russians by Col
Andriy Lysenko, a spokesman for Ukraine's National Security Council, came after the country's defense minister said Ukraine's armed forces are expanding their strategy from just fighting separatists to facing the Russian army in a war that could cost "tens of thousands" of lives.
Lysenko told reporters Russian troops had been seen in the cities of Donetsk and Luhansk, as well as other locations throughout the east
 The claim could not be confirmed independently
Lysenko also said 15 servicemen had been killed over the previous day.
Yuri Ushakov, the Russian leader's foreign policy adviser, told reporters that Putin's statement was "taken out of context and carried a completely different meaning."
Putin's comment reportedly came in response to Barroso pointing out Ukrainian and Western claims that Russia had sharply escalated the conflict in eastern Ukraine by sending regular army units into Ukraine
NATO has estimated that at least 1,000 Russian soldiers have entered Ukraine, helping turn the tide in the last week in favor of the pro-Russian insurgents
NATO also says 20,000 Russian soldiers have been positioned along the Ukraine-Russian border.
Ukrainian Defense Minister Valeriy Heletey said on his Facebook page that the counter-insurgency operation against the rebels is over and the nation's military is now facing the Russian army.
"This is our Great Patriotic War," he wrote, using the local terminology for World War II.
Russia's Foreign Ministry dismissed Heletey's remarks as "shocking" and accused him of trying to shift blame and keep his position amid a series of defeats suffered by the Ukrainian military.
Pro-Russian rebels have been fighting Ukrainian government troops since mid-April in a conflict that has left more than 2,500 people dead and forced at least 340,000 to flee
In the last week, the rebels have scored significant gains on the ground, launching a new offensive along the Sea of Azov coast.
Efforts to negotiate a peaceful settlement to the hostilities, which followed the ouster of Ukraine's pro-Russian president and Russia's annexation of Crimea in March, have failed.
Representatives of Ukraine, Russia, the pro-Russian rebels and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe made another attempt Monday to reach an accord in Minsk, the Belarusian capital
Rebels presented a negotiating platform that dropped their previous demand for full independence and expressed readiness to negotiate a settlement that would respect Ukraine's territorial integrity in exchange for a broad autonomy for its eastern provinces.
The talks lasted several hours and were adjourned until Friday, when the parties are expected to discuss specifics of a possible cease-fire and a prisoners' exchange.
However, the prospect of talks between Ukraine and the rebels appear dim.
"We don't cooperate with terrorist organizations," said Iryna Herashchenko, the presidential envoy for eastern Ukraine, according to the Interfax news agency.
And Oleh Tyanhybok, leader of the nationalist Svoboda party, said "I would warn the president and diplomats from sitting at the talks table" with rebels.
Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Tuesday urged the United States to use its influence with Ukraine to encourage efforts to reach a political settlement.
"It's necessary to restrain the party of war in Kiev and only the United States can do it," he said at a briefing.
Obama administration officials said Thursday that Russia is firing artillery from its own territory into Ukraine to hit Ukrainian military sites, pointing to escalating Russian involvement in the deadly conflict. 
"This clearly is a military escalation," Pentagon spokesman Col
Steve Warren said, adding there is no question that Russian military -- as opposed to Russia-backed separatists -- are firing the shots. 
State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf first made the accusation during a press briefing earlier Thursday
She also claimed Moscow is boosting its military shipments to pro-Russian separatists. 
"We have new evidence that the Russians intend to deliver heavier and more powerful multiple rocket launchers to separatist forces in Ukraine and have evidence that Russia is firing artillery from within Russian to attack Ukrainian military positions," Harf told reporters. 
She said the evidence derived from "human intelligence information" but declined to elaborate, saying it would compromise sources and methods of intelligence collection. 
The allegations come amid an increasingly bitter war of words between Washington and Moscow over the crisis in Ukraine and conflicting claims over the downing of a Malaysian passenger jet over eastern Ukraine last week. 
The U.S
repeatedly has accused Russia of stoking the Ukraine rebellion and has said it believes separatists shot down the Malaysian plane, killing nearly 300 people, with a Russian provided surface-to-air missile. 
Harf said Wednesday the ultimate responsibility for the downing of the plane rests with Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Russian government. 
Former CIA director Gen
Michael Hayden told Megyn Kelly Thursday night on "The Kelly File" that in light of recent developments, "it's not just about Ukraine now, it's about what Europe is going to look like for the next era."
Meanwhile, additional military aircraft carrying remains of victims from the Malaysian plane disaster arrived in the Netherlands on Thursday, while Australian and Dutch diplomats joined to promote a plan for a U.N
team to secure the crash site which has been controlled by pro-Russian rebels. 
On Monday, the U.N
Security Council unanimously approved a resolution proposed by Australia demanding that rebels cooperate with an independent investigation and allow all remaining bodies to be recovered. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a cease-fire agreement for eastern Ukraine had been reached Thursday, bringing an end to marathon talks between the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France.
The agreement is due to take effect at midnight Sunday (4 p.m
ET Saturday), but questions remain about whether the deal will hold up after the collapse of a previous cease-fire in September
French President Francois Hollande called the agreement a "serious deal" in comments to the BBC, but noted that not every issue had been resolved
Hollande said that he and German Chancellor Angela Merkel were committed to helping verify the cease-fire process.
In one potential area of disagreement, Putin said that he and his opposite number, Ukraine's Petro Poroshenko disagreed on assessing the situation in the government-held town of Debaltseve
The town is a key transport hub between Donetsk and Luhansk, the two major cities controlled by Moscow-backed separatist rebels, and has been the focus of intense fighting in recent weeks as the rebels sought to encircle the Ukrainian troops there.
Putin said that the rebels consider the Ukrainian forces surrounded and expect them to surrender, while Ukraine disagrees with that
Putin added that they agreed with Poroshenko to clarify the situation, and urged the warring parties to show restraint.
For his part, Poroshenko said that all parties agreed to help Ukraine reclaim control of the border with Russia, some of which is now controlled by the rebels
Poroshenko also told reporters that that heavy weaponry will be withdrawn from the front lines by both sides between 31 and 43 miles in the next two weeks.
The line of division and other key provisions were contained in a document endorsed by rebel chiefs and the representatives of Russia, Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
That agreement was endorsed by the four leaders, who issued a separate declaration.
Poroshenko also said that no agreement had been reached on the issue of greater autonomy for the rebel-held areas of eastern Ukraine
The separatists' early demands for a federalized Ukraine culminated in a May independence referendum.
"We were presented with various unacceptable conditions of withdrawal and surrender," Poroshenko said
"We did not agree to any ultimatums and stated firmly that the cease-fire that is announced is unconditional."
Poroshenko also said the documents signed envisage the withdrawal of all foreign troops and militants from Ukraine -- a reference to the soldiers and weapons that Ukraine and the West say Russia has sent into eastern Ukraine to back the rebels
Moscow has denied the accusations, saying Russians in eastern Ukraine were volunteers, but the sheer number of sophisticated heavy weapons in rebels' possession belies the denial.
The talks in the Belarusian capital, Minsk, had lasted for 16 hours before the cease-fire was announced.
"It was not the best night in my life," Putin told reporters, "but the morning, I think, it is good because we have managed to agree on the main things despite all the difficulties of the negotiations."
"We came to an agreement, an agreement on a cease-fire and on a global political settlement of the Ukrainian conflict," Hollande said
"That global settlement will include all issues, from the cease-fire to the control of the border, to decentralization, and, of course, the pullback of heavy weapons and resuming economic relations."
Hollande also praised Putin for applying "pressure as much as necessary on the separatists."
Meanwhile, both sides reported fighting across eastern Ukraine Thursday, as the conflict the U.N
says has killed over 5,300 people since this past April ground on.
The talks had been given added urgency by an increase in bloodshed in recent weeks, as well as rising calls by U.S
lawmakers to provide Kiev's forces with so-called lethal aid
European leaders, led by Merkel, fear that increased weapons shipments would only aggravate the fight
Russia, meanwhile, faces a severe economic downturn driven in part by sanctions the West has imposed for supporting the separatists with troops and equipment, which Russia vehemently denies it is doing.
Before heading to Minsk, Russia Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the most important goal of the talks would be to implement a cease-fire, but warned that Ukraine could fully re-establish its control over the border with Russia only if it offers a degree of autonomy to the east and lifts its economic blockade.
"To give away the Russian part of the border also would be to cut them (the rebels) off even from humanitarian help and allow them to be surrounded," Lavrov said.
Poroshenko posted a statement saying he had made an impromptu visit early Wednesday to the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk, where Kiev says 16 people were killed and 48 wounded in a rocket strike a day earlier
The city is 30 miles from the nearest front line.
Western leaders on Sunday scrambled to defuse the crisis in Ukraine, as the nation's new government placed its military on "high alert" after more than 6,000 Russian forces poured into the Crimean Peninsula.
The Group of Seven nations  -- including the United States, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Britain -- said Sunday night that they're suspending participation in the upcoming economic summit scheduled to be held in Sochi, the recent site of the Winter Olympics, in protest of Russia's actions. 
"We call on Russia to address any ongoing security or human rights concerns that it has with Ukraine through direct negotiations, and/or via international observation or mediation under the auspices of the UN or the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe," the G-7 said in a statement released by the White House.
Earlier Sunday, President Obama spoke with British Prime Minister David Cameron, Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, and the four leaders expressed their "grave concern" over "Russia's clear violation of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity," the White House said.
Also on Sunday, Secretary of State John Kerry said he would be visiting Kiev on Tuesday in a show of support for the nation's new government, as he blasted Russia's actions as part of "a stunning, willful" choice to invade another country.
In a conference call with reporters, senior Obama administration officials said military options were off the table but ways to exert diplomatic and economic pressure on Russia were being considered. 
"(The Ukraine incursion) is a show of weakness," a senior administration official said
"They have lost the government they backed in Kiev, now they're resorting to the type of intervention that will severely distance them from the international community."
Meanwhile, NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said at a press conference that Russia should pull back its forces and refrain from interfering elsewhere in Ukraine, according to Reuters
NATO is urging the two countries to seek a peaceful resolution through dialogue.
Ukraine is not a NATO member, which means the United States and Europe are not obligated to come to its defense
But Ukraine has taken part in some alliance military exercises and contributed troops to its response force.
So far, however, Ukraine's new government and the West have been powerless to counter Russia's tactics
Armed men in uniforms without insignia have moved freely about Crimea for days, occupying airports, smashing equipment at an air base and besieging a Ukrainian infantry base.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has defied calls from the West to pull back his troops, insisting that Russia has a right to protect its interests and those of Russian-speakers in Crimea and elsewhere in Ukraine
His confidence is matched by the knowledge that Ukraine's 46 million people have divided loyalties
While much of western Ukraine wants closer ties with the 28-nation European Union, its eastern and southern regions like Crimea look to Russia for support.
Russia has long wanted to reclaim the lush Crimean Peninsula, part of its territory until 1954
Russia's Black Sea Fleet pays Ukraine millions every year to be stationed at the Crimean port of Sevastopol and nearly 60 percent of Crimea's residents identify themselves as Russian.
During a phone conversation Sunday with Merkel, Putin "directed her attention to the unrelenting threat of violence from ultranationalist forces (in Ukraine) that endangered the life and legal interests of Russian citizens," according to a Kremlin statement.
"The measures taken by Russia are fully adequate with regard to the current extraordinary situation," it said.
Russia's state-controlled media has played almost nonstop footage of the Ukrainian crisis, highlighting what it says are ultranationalist attacks on Russians and pro-Russian Ukrainians by activists from Kiev or regions further west
However, AP reporters in Ukraine witnessed no acts of violence directed at Russians or Russian sympathizers in Crimea.
Ukraine's new government came to power last week following months of pro-democracy protests against the country's pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovych, and his decision to turn Ukraine toward Russia instead of the EU
Yanukovych fled to Russia after more than 80 people were killed in the protests, but insists he's still president.
Turchynov also moved to consolidate the new government's authority in eastern Ukraine, appointing 18 new regional governors and enlisting the support of the country's wealthy businessmen, known as oligarchs
The new appointees included two oligarchs in the eastern cities of Dneprotrovsk and Donetsk, as big business and the Ukrainian government united against Russia.
Ukraine's richest man, Rinat Akhmetov, urged business, ordinary people and the government to join together, saying Sunday that the use of force and "illegal action from outside" were "impermissible."
"I call upon all my fellow citizens to unity for the sake of a whole and undivided Ukraine ..
Our strength is in the solidarity of business, government and society," said Akhmetov, whose SCM Group has 300,000 employees and interests in steel, coal and mining.
Faced with the threat from Russia, "the national elite has consolidated around the new government," political analyst Vadim Karasyov of the Institute for Global Strategies told The Associated Press
"This is a very good sign for the new government."
Russian troops, meanwhile, pulled up to the Ukrainian military base at Perevalne on the Crimean Peninsula in a convoy Sunday that included at least 13 trucks and four armored vehicles with mounted machine guns
The trucks carried 30 soldiers each and had Russian license plates, and the Ukrainian colonel in charge of the base, Sergei Storozhenko, told the Wall Street Journal that the troops are Russian.
In response, a dozen Ukrainian soldiers, some with clips in their rifles, placed a tank at the base's gate, leaving the two sides in a tense standoff
It appeared to be the first known case of outmatched Ukrainians standing up to Russian military might.
Unidentified soldiers were also seen cutting power to the headquarters of the Ukrainian naval forces in Crimea — whose commander defected later Sunday and pledged his allegiance to "the people of Crimea."
In Kiev, a Ukrainian security official said the head of the Ukrainian navy — Adm
Denis Berezovsky — had been dismissed and faces a treason investigation after declaring his allegiance to the pro-Russian government in Crimea and offering no resistance to the Russian troops.
The speaker of Crimea's legislature, Vladimir Konstantinov, was quoted as saying local authorities do not recognize the new government in Kiev
He said a planned referendum on March 30 would ask voters about the region's future status.
A convoy of hundreds of Russian troops was also seen heading toward Simferopol, the regional capital of Crimea
Armed men in military uniforms without markings strolled around Simferopol's central plaza, Lenin Square, outside its Council of Ministers building.
He said he has urged Russian officials to "speak directly to the Ukrainians" but so far they had not.
In Kiev, Moscow and other cities, thousands of protesters took to the streets to either decry the Russian occupation or celebrate Crimea's return to its former ruler
Ukraine’s government has accused Russia of sending over hundreds of its citizens across the border to stage the protests so it can justify an invasion, Reuters reports.
"Support us, America!" a group of protesters chanted outside the U.S
Embassy in Kiev
One young girl held up a placard reading: "No Russian aggression!"
"Russia! Russia!" the crowd chanted in Moscow, where at least 10,000 people bearing Russian flags marched freely through the city Sunday, while a few dozen demonstrating on Red Square against the invasion of Ukraine were quickly detained by Russian riot police.
"We understand that the West wants to attack us and seize this territory
The West "is dangerous to us," said Victor Sidelin, a Moscow resident at the march.
September 6, 2014: Ukrainian soldiers inspect a damaged tank on the outskirts of the southern coastal town of Mariupol
(REUTERS/VASILY FEDOSENKO)
DONETSK, Ukraine –  Shelling and other clashes between government forces and Russian-backed separatists threw the cease-fire agreement in eastern Ukraine into deepening peril Sunday, two days after it took hold.
At least two houses hit by artillery fire blazed in the rural village of Spartak, which lies just north of the main rebel-held city of Donetsk and adjacent to the airport.
A group of rebel fighters in the village danced and drank Sunday morning in celebration after what they said was a successful assault on a Ukrainian military encampment in the area
One said the group had captured eight government troops, though no captives could be seen.
The fighter, who gave only the nom de guerre Khokhol, said the truce was not being respected by either side.
The truce — signed on Friday by Ukraine, Russia and the Kremlin-backed rebels after five months of fighting that killed at least 2,600 civilians and forced hundreds of thousands from their homes — was shattered late Saturday by shelling on the outskirts of the coastal town of Mariupol
The city council said Sunday that one civilian was killed and a serviceman wounded.
The rebels recently opened a new front on the coast in what many Ukrainians fear is an attempt to secure a land corridor between Russia and the Crimean Peninsula, which Russia annexed in March.
Amnesty International on Sunday condemned all sides in the grinding conflict, saying they have "shown disregard for civilian lives and are blatantly violating their international obligations."
Blasts powerful enough to be heard in downtown Donetsk appeared to be coming from the direction of the airport early Sunday morning
The government-held terminal, which has been reduced to little more than a burned-out shell, has been under unremitting attack from separatist forces for months.
A rebel statement said Ukrainian forces fired on their positions in six locations on Saturday, including near the airport, and several rebels were killed.
In Spartak, resident Anastasia Ivanusenko, who moved to Donetsk to escape the fighting, learned her house had been destroyed Sunday as she was coming to pick up some basic items for her child.
"I have a little baby and we are temporarily living in a dormitory
We wanted to get the stroller, some warm clothes for the child," she said, quietly sobbing on a bench across the road from her burning home
"There was no way to get into the house."
The 12-point cease-fire agreement, published Sunday by international monitors, calls for the withdrawal of all heavy weaponry, the release of all prisoners and the delivery of humanitarian aid to devastated cities in eastern Ukraine.
The truce also obliges Kiev to give greater powers to the separatist Donetsk and Luhansk regions and calls for local elections to be held in those Russian-speaking areas.
Western leaders voiced skepticism over Russia's commitment to the deal
A previous 10-day cease-fire, which each side repeatedly accused the other of violating, yielded few results at the negotiating table.
Echoing allegations leveled by the Ukrainian government and NATO, Amnesty International said that it has evidence that Moscow is fueling the conflict by directly supporting the separatist fighters
In making its case, the group presented satellite images appearing to show Russian weaponry being brought into Ukraine.
"These satellite images, coupled with reports of Russian troops captured inside Ukraine and eyewitness accounts of Russian troops and military vehicles rolling across the border, leave no doubt that this is now an international armed conflict," Amnesty International Secretary-General Salil Shetty said in a statement.
As pro-Russian separatists and the Ukrainian government traded charges about who was behind the surface-to-air missile that downed a Malaysia Airlines jet with 298 aboard Thursday, Ukraine's separatist rebels on Friday said they have found "most" of the plane's recording devices.
The Boeing 777 bound for Kuala Lumpur from Amsterdam was shot down Thursday afternoon at cruising altitude about 35 miles from the border, according to Anton Gerashenko, an adviser to Ukraine's Interior Minister.
Malaysia Airlines originally said there were 280 passengers and a crew of 15 aboard the flight, though it later upped the number of passengers to 283 to account for three infants.
The flight manifest reportedly included the names of 23 Americans, though U.S
officials were unable to confirm Thursday whether any Americans were onboard the plane.
The incident touched off immediate finger-pointing between pro-Russian separatists and the Ukrainian government
Eastern Ukraine separatist leader Alexander Borodai told Reuters that Ukrainian military forces shot the jet down, but Kiev denied involvement and labeled the incident a "terrorist act."
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Ukraine bore responsibility for the crash, but he did not address the question of who might have shot it down and didn't accuse Ukraine of doing so.
"This tragedy would not have happened if there were peace on this land, if the military actions had not been renewed in southeast Ukraine," Putin said, according to a Kremlin statement issued early Friday
"And, certainly, the state over whose territory this occurred bears responsibility for this awful tragedy."
Ukraine's security services produced what they said were two intercepted telephone conversations that showed rebels were responsible
In the first call, the security services said, rebel commander Igor Bezler tells a Russian military intelligence officer that rebel forces shot down a plane
In the second, two rebel fighters — one at the crash scene — say the rocket attack was carried out by insurgents about 25 kilometers (15 miles) north of the site.
Russia's Interfax news agency quoted Donetsk rebel spokesman Sergey Kavtaradze as denying that the intercepted phone conversations were genuine.
But separatist leader Igor Girkin boasted on Facebook at about the same time the plane went down claiming to have downed a transport plane, though the post was quickly deleted after it became clear the plane was a passenger aircraft.
“In Torez An-26 was shot down, its crashes are lying somewhere near the coal mine “Progress,” read the tweet, obtained by FoxNews.com and translated into English
"We have warned everyone: do not fly in our skies.”
The self-titled "Self-defence forces of the Donetsk People's Republic" boasted in a June 29 press release of having taken control of Buk missile defense systems
The Buk, or SA-11 missile launchers, have a range of up to 72,000 feet.
Separatist groups reportedly blocked Ukrainian officials from the scene following the crash, and later said the "black box," or flight data recorder, had been sent to Moscow
An assistant to Girkin said Friday on condition of anonymity that eight out of the plane's 12 recording devices had been located
He did not elaborate.
He said Girkin was still considering whether to give international crash investigators access to the sprawling crash site
Any investigators would need specific permission from the rebel leadership before they could safely film or take photos at the scene.
The White House issued a statement late Thursday, pressing for a "full, credible, and unimpeded international investigation," adding that it was "vital" that no evidence be tampered with at the crash scene.
"The United States is shocked by the downing of Malaysian Airlines Flight 17, and we offer our deep condolences to all those who lost loved ones on board," the statement said.
The White House said President Obama spoke with Ukrainian President Poroshenko Thursday afternoon to discuss the crash and “emphasized that all evidence from the crash site must remain in place on the territory of Ukraine until international investigators are able to examine all aspects of the tragedy.”
Meanwhile, a U.S
intelligence source told Fox News that the intelligence community was ruling out the possibility the missile was fired by the Ukraine military but could not rule out that it was fired from Russian territory.
The missile was believed to have been fired from a Russian Buk launcher, and the Malaysia Airlines plane appeared to be at least the third aircraft downed in the area since Monday, when a Ukrainian An-26 cargo plane was shot down
Late Wednesday, a Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jet crashed, though it could not be confirmed if it was shot down.
KT McFarland, a former deputy assistant secretary of defense under President Ronald Reagan and a Fox News national security analyst, said the attack was most likely the work of Russian separatists, not the Russian or Ukrainian armies.
"I think it’s far more likely it was rebel forces in eastern Ukraine trying to get the Russian back involved," McFarland said.
But retired Army Lt
Col Ralph Peters, also a Fox News contributor, said it is unlikely the Russian military would have put missile batteries capable of knocking a plane out of the sky at such an altitude in the hands of rebels.
"It wasn't the separatists, although Russia will try to blame them, or blame the Ukrainians," Peters said
"The Russians have not given the separatists complex, high-altitude air-defense systems.If this airliner was flying at 34,000 feet or any altitude close to that, it was shot down by Russian military air-defense systems perched on the Ukrainian border."
Peters said the Russian military has been shooting down Ukrainian military aircraft in recent weeks, and most likely mistook the airliner for a Ukrainian military aircraft.
"Russia has a small number of elite forces, but most of the Russian military is ill-trained, sloppy and marginally disciplined.," he said
"With no Western response to them shooting down Ukrainian aircraft, they just got trigger happy."
A Reuters correspondent near the scene reported seeing burning wreckage and bodies strewn across a nine-mile debris field
A Ukrainian Emergency official told the news agency body parts and at least 100 bodies were seen in the area.
Early Friday, The International AIDS Society (IAS) issued a statement saying “a number of colleagues and friends” were aboard the plane en route to the 20th International AIDS Conference in Melbourne, Australia.
The flight manifest reportedly included the names of 23 Americans, though State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said at a briefing Thursday afternoon, "we don't have any additional details at this point on American citizens" aboard the plane.
Other passengers reportedly were from the Netherlands, Australia, Malaysia, Indonesia, Great Britain, Germany, Belgium, the Philippines and Canada.
An AFP journalist at Amsterdam's Schiphol airport –- where the plane had taken off –- said distraught family members were in tears, according to The Telegraph.
Late Thursday, the Federal Aviation Administration issued a notice prohibiting U.S
flight operations in the airspace over eastern Ukraine “due to recent events and the potential for continued hazardous activities.” However, it also noted no scheduled U.S
airlines were currently flying routes through the airspace.
The Donetsk region government said Thursday's plane crashed near a village called Grabovo, which it said is currently under the control of armed pro-Russian separatists
The area has been a flashpoint to the larger dispute between Ukraine and ethnic Russian separatists
Fighting has intensified in recent months in the region.
President Obama said the incident appeared to "be a terrible tragedy" and that the administration is working to determine whether American citizens were on board
He noted the national security team is in close contact with the Ukrainian government.
Rep
Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said whether it was intentional or accidental it is an "international incident" when a passenger jet is shot down
McCaul said he believed only a military grade weapon could have downed the plane.
"Our thoughts and prayers are with those on board the Malaysia Airlines airplane lost over Ukrainian airspace, as well as their families and loved ones," Boeing said in a statement
"Boeing stands ready to provide whatever assistance is requested by authorities."
On March 8, Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, also a Boeing 777 and carrying 227 passengers and 12 crew on a route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, disappeared somewhere over the ocean
It has not been found despite expansive searches over land and water.
Regional analysts Dr
Stephen Blank and Job Henning told Fox News’ Jonathan Hunt the situation between Ukraine and Russia is getting worse.
“This is the great threat to international security today – because it is the first aggression of its kind since Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait 25 years ago … it is a very dangerous precedent for Russia,” Blank, a senior fellow for Russia at the American Foreign Policy Council, told FoxNews.com.
A Russian Foreign Ministry official raised eyebrows Wednesday when suggesting his country has the right to deploy nuclear arms in the disputed Crimea territory, yet adding he knew of no plans to do so.
“It’s really indicative of a lot of loose talk on both sides … from the Russian side you see some really offhanded ways talking about nuclear capabilities that are very different than anything we saw during the Cold War
I think that is precisely that drifting into a strategic confrontation … makes it a truly dangerous situation,” said Henning, a fellow with the national security think-tank Truman National Security Project.
Both believe the U.S
should have a cautious approach with this potential unraveling situation, including sending arms to Ukraine.
“Just giving weapons to Ukraine without giving them enough training to use them or strengthening the Ukrainian state will not be productive,” said Blank.
Henning cautions “that we are really not good at arming our allies – we weren’t good at it in Vietnam, Afghanistan, or Iraq … we need to be realistic about our ability to build the capacity for the Ukrainian government to receive and responsibly use those military capabilities and we have to be realistic about Russian reactions.”  Experts are debating whether Russian President Vladimir Putin is acting haphazardly for a reason.
