As Russian-backed rebels scored another victory is Eastern Ukraine Thursday, two giants of 20th-century geopolitics issued separate warnings about the crisis, suggesting it could evolve into a deeper, direct conflict between the United States and Russia with dangerous consequences.
Testifying at a U.S
Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Henry Kissinger, an ardent Cold Warrior who was Richard Nixon’s main foreign policy advisor, stopped short of endorsing a call by the committee chairman, Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona, to provide defensive weapons to Ukraine’s military as it battles Russian-backed separatists.
“I’m uneasy about beginning a process of military engagement without knowing where it will lead us and what we’ll do to sustain it,” the 91-year-old Mr
Kissinger said.
Meanwhile, former Russian leader Mikhail Gorbachev told Russia’s Interfax news agency that the West had “dragged” Russia into a new Cold War, one that risked outright confrontation.
Mr
Gorbachev was one of the architects of the peaceful dismantling of communist rule in Eastern Europe.
He has increasingly sounded ominous warnings about the path events are taking in Ukraine
Earlier in January, he reportedly told a German magazine that he feared a nuclear confrontation was possible if things begin to escalate.
“The statements and propaganda on both sides make me fear the worst
If anyone loses their nerve in this charged atmosphere, we will not survive the next few years,” he said.
More than 5,100 people have been killed in the bloody conflict
Ukraine accuses Russia of aiding the separatists while Russia says the West is behind Ukraine’s attempts to retake the rebel-held areas.
A soldier wounded in combat for the town, Vuhlehirsk, said armoured vehicles and tanks were used in the attack on government positions, forcing a hasty retreat.
The loss of full control over town will further complicate efforts to resist the onslaught on Debaltseve, a nearby railway hub that sits between the two main rebel-held cities of Donetsk and Luhansk.
In Washington, much of the hearing seemed like a flashback to the 1970’s and 1980’s, as Mr
Kissinger was joined by two other elder statesmen — former Secretaries of State George Shultz, who served under President Ronald Reagan, and Madeleine Albright, the top diplomat in the Clinton administration — to offer their views of national security strategy.
Mr
Kissinger, who showed up with his right arm in a sling, was briefly shouted down by a protester accusing him of war crimes from the Vietnam War.
“Get out of here, you low-life scum,” Mr
McCain, a former Navy pilot and Vietnam prisoner of war, told a protester before the hearing started.
His mother knows
She knows that Mr
Tumanov, 20, a junior sergeant in the Russian army, was killed in eastern Ukraine, torn apart in a rocket attack on Aug 13.
“What I don’t understand is what he died for,” she says
“Why couldn’t we let people in Ukraine sort things out for themselves?” As the year draws to a close, the Kremlin continues to insist that not a single Russian soldier has entered Ukraine to join the pro-Moscow separatist militia who have been fighting government forces since April.
Earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the president, said that all Russian combatants in Ukraine’s Donbas region were volunteer militiamen answering “a call of the heart.”
The story of Mr
Tumanov and the shadowy deaths of scores of other Russian servicemen since this summer belie that claim.
Rights activists have recorded cases of at least 40 serving soldiers suspected of dying in the conflict, and many believe the figure is in the hundreds, but prosecutors refuse to investigate their deaths.
Denied any legal status by the lies and obfuscation that muffle their stories, these men and their families have been left in limbo
They are casualties of an undeclared war.
Officially, Mr
Tumanov died while “carrying out responsibilities of military service” at an unnamed “point of temporary deployment of military unit 27777″, part of the army’s 18th Guards Motor Rifle Brigade, whose permanent base is in Kalinovskaya, Chechnya
His death certificate records that he died from an “explosion injury”, receiving “multiple shrapnel wounds to the lower limbs” that resulted in “acute, massive blood loss.” The certificate leaves unticked a box saying the cause of his injuries was “military hostilities”, preferring instead “origin not established.”
A sanitary inspector, she lives with her husband and Tumanov’s two younger brothers on the second floor of a wooden house in Kozmodemyansk, a small, crumpled town by a bend in the Volga, 400 miles east of Moscow
The sealed zinc coffin containing her son arrived on a Wednesday
“There was a little window in the top so you could look at his face,” she recalled.
Mrs
Tumanova spoke to a major in Chechnya by telephone who confirmed the young man had perished in Ukraine, but refused to explain why he was sent there or give any details
The order to go there, “came from above in verbal form only”, he said.
Mr
Tumanov had served as a conscript soldier after school and he decided to return to the forces as a career soldier when he couldn’t find a job
In June he was sent to Chechnya
“I tried to persuade him not to go because of what was happening in Ukraine,” said Mrs
Tumanova
“But our president said that none of our soldiers would be sent there – ’it’s just Ukrainians fighting each other’ – and I believed that
So in the end I did not argue.” 
Mr
Tumanov had not been in Chechnya 10 days before he and other soldiers at the base were approached and asked if they would go to Donbas to fight as volunteers.
He and his friends refused, he told his mother by telephone
“Who wants to die?” she said
“That was their thinking
Nobody was attacking Russia; if they had been, Anton would have been first in the queue.” 
By the middle of July, things had changed
Now 27777, his regular army unit, was dispatched to a temporary camp in the Rostov region, near the border with Ukraine, officially “for exercises.”
Soon he was telling Nastya Chernova, his fiancee, that he was going on short trips into Ukraine to accompany deliveries of arms and military vehicles to the rebels.
This was the moment when pro-Moscow militia in eastern Ukraine were on the brink of caving in to government forces, who had almost surrounded the separatist capital, Donetsk
Over the next month, Russia would stage a major intervention, sending tanks and troops across the border to help reclaim rebel territory.
On Aug 10, Mr
Tumanov telephoned his mother and said: “Tomorrow they are sending us to Donetsk [the rebel capital]
We’re going to help the militia.” 
“On Aug 11 we were given an order to remove the identification plates from our military vehicles, change into camouflage suits and tie white rags on our arms and legs,” the soldier wrote
“At the border we received supplies of ammunition
On the 11th and 12th we crossed on to Ukrainian territory
On Aug 13 at lunchtime our column was hit by a rocket strike, during which Anton Tumanov died
At that moment we were in Ukraine, in Snezhnoye [a town not far from Donetsk].” Other soldiers suggested that as many as 120 men had died when the volley of Ukrainian Grad missiles hit.
Sergei Krivenko, the head of Citizen and Army, a civil group in Moscow which helps soldiers and their families protect their rights, says activists are sure of at least 40 deaths of Russian servicemen this summer and autumn, but suspect the total may be significantly higher
“Russia is officially not at war so there should be a criminal investigation into every death, but the authorities refuse our requests to open them,” he added
Many relatives are too frightened to speak about their loved ones’ deaths.
Probing the deaths can be a risky business
Lyudmila Bogatenkova, a 73-year-old representative of the Soldiers’ Mothers Committee in Stavropol, was charged with fraud after she investigated other deaths in Snezhnoye.
The St Petersburg chapter of the same group was added to Russia’s list of Foreign Agents – a blacklist of NGOs with foreign funding – after it publicized reports of scores of injured being brought to a hospital in the city.
In Kozmodemyansk, Miss Chernova cannot forget her boyfriend
She posts poems about Mr
Tumanov on social media and remembers the moment she woke up abruptly with a bad feeling inside on the day he died.
At the town’s military commissariat, employees said they had no information about Mr
Tumanov
A senior official at the medical centre in Rostov where his death was recorded also refused to comment.
Sponsored by The Confederation Centre of the Arts
Even when he was prime minister, Sir John A
Macdonald made a point of personally responding to the many letters he received.
Queen Victoria could not have envisioned a more loyal subject at the helm of her empire's largest dominion than Canada's first prime minister.
In Canadian mythology, it was Queen Victoria who chose Ottawa to be the nation's capital in 1857
“There have been reports about satellite imagery exposing Russian troop movements,” Sergey Lavrov said, according to state-owned Russia Today
“They turned out to be images from video games
The latest accusations happen to be much the same quality.”
It’s a step forward for commentary in the selectively skeptical state news agency; Thursday, it wasn’t convinced the images existed, conceding only that there are “claims that photographs exist that someone had ‘seen.'” 
In true Cold War fashion, Russia has continually denied involvement in the Ukrainian conflict regardless of the evidence presented
Russia “has manipulated
It has obfuscated
It has outright lied,”  the United States’ UN Ambassador Samantha Power said Thursday
Russians fighting in Ukraine are “volunteers,” Russia’s ambassador to the UN, Vitaly Churkin, said Thursday
“No one is hiding that.”
Earlier this week, Ukraine released video of Russian soldiers captured inside Ukraine
The men crossed the border “by accident on an unmarked section,” Russia said.
August 16, Kyiv claimed it destroyed most of a Russian military column inside Ukraine
No Russian military vehicles were destroyed because none had crossed into Ukraine, the Russian defence ministry replied.
Most famously, Russia had denied that it had any troops in Crimea before annexing the region, insisting that unrest sprang up organically.
April 17, about a month after a suspiciously one-sided referendum, Russian President Vladimir Putin admitted for the first time that troops in unmarked uniforms who had overtaken the region were Russian soldiers.
Putin is chief among them, but there are also some European powers, including Germany and France, who despite being on the opposite side of the crisis share Putin’s desire not to paint it as an out-and-out war between Russia and Ukraine.
For them, stating unequivocally that Russia has attacked Ukraine would force them to impose more costly sanctions, and could block the path to a truce with Russia they hope will resolve the crisis.
Some say the evidence of Russian involvement has built to a point where it now strains credibility to assert that Russia’s military is not helping the rebels in eastern Ukraine.
That is especially so after the past 72 hours when, according to Kyiv, Russia has pushed in troops and hardware to avoid a collapse of its pro-Moscow separatist allies.
A Reuters reporter saw armoured vehicles and uniformed men, all with identifying markings removed or covered up, massing on the Russian side of the border with Ukraine
They were a short drive from the Ukrainian village where residents reported seeing identical troops manning checkpoints.
In the northwest Russian city of Pskov, reporters were chased away from a cemetery where, according to accounts on social media, two Russian paratroopers killed in Ukraine were secretly buried.
Russia continues to deny that its troops or military equipment have attacked Ukraine
The defence ministry dismissed the assertions as a “canard” invented by foreigners.
The same poll showed the majority of Russians receive their information on the conflict from television — which is almost entirely state-controlled and makes no mention of Russian troops fighting in Ukraine — and that 73% believe the information they get from the media is reliable.
MUNICH — Ukraine’s president pushed Saturday for a quick cease-fire in his country’s troubled east, insisting that the conflict must be resolved and not “frozen,” and pressed Kyiv’s case to be supplied with defensive weapons.
Petro Poroshenko spoke amid a hectic flurry of diplomacy
Hours earlier, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she’s still unsure of reaching a deal to calm the crisis, which France’s president said could feature a broad demilitarized zone and greater autonomy for Ukraine’s separatist eastern region.
“I take with me the passports and military ID of Russian soldiers, Russian officers who come to us,” Poroshenko was reported saying by AFP
The president had both his hands full of at least seven documents each. “This is the best evidence for the aggression and for the presence of Russian troops.”
Merkel and French President Francois Hollande, fresh from trips to Kyiv and Moscow, plan to discuss the proposals in a phone call Sunday with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Poroshenko.
The aim is to draw up a possible joint document on implementing the much-violated September peace plan concluded in Minsk, Belarus
That agreement also featured a demilitarized zone, though the battle lines have since changed, and the government in Kyiv has offered a measure of autonomy to the separatists.
Poroshenko told the Munich Security Conference that Ukraine stands ready for a “comprehensive and immediate cease-fire” and Russia should be too.
He indicated he didn’t want any peacekeepers in eastern Ukraine, saying they wouldn’t be needed if foreign fighters were withdrawn and the Ukraine-Russia border sealed
Then, he said, there would be “peace and stability in Ukraine … within a couple of weeks.”
Hollande, speaking to France 2 television, said the plan under negotiation would see a 50- to 70-kilometer (31- to 44-mile) demilitarized zone.
He called for “rather strong” autonomy in the east
“These people have gone to war,” Hollande said
“It will be difficult to make them share a common life.”
Merkel said it is uncertain whether the talks will succeed, “but it is, from my point of view and that of the French president, in any case worth making this attempt.”
“This conflict cannot be resolved by military means,” Merkel said
“It is all the more important now to set out substantial steps that serve to fill with life the Minsk agreement.”
U.S
Vice President Joe Biden said that “it’s very much worth the attempt” but Russia must be judged by its actions on the ground, “not by the paper they signed.”
The urgent diplomacy comes as Western anxiety over the conflict grows and sanctions bite ever harder on Russia’s economy
More than 5,300 people have been killed since fighting began in April, according to a U.N
tally, and the bloodshed has markedly increased over the past two weeks.
Russia’s most immediate goal in the Ukraine crisis is likely the lifting of some of the Western sanctions which, in concert with plunging oil prices, have driven the Russian economy into a parlous state – or at least to fend off the imposition of further sanctions
In the longer game, Russia has pushed for so-called “federalization” of Ukraine that would give broad powers to its provinces and allow them to deal directly with Moscow.
Russia also wants to keep Ukraine out of NATO
Although Ukraine dropped its nonalignment policy last year, the Western alliance would be unlikely to accept Ukraine as a member in the near future because of its unstable politics and endemic corruption.
Merkel acknowledged disillusionment over the failure of previous agreements to stick and said “there are no theoretical guarantees” that a new one would either.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said he “sincerely” hopes the latest diplomatic drive “will produce results, and those results will be supported by the parties to this conflict.”
As soon as Kyiv and eastern Ukrainian separatists agree on practical details of implementing the Minsk deal, “I am sure that Russia will be among those parties that will guarantee the implementation of this agreement,” Lavrov told the conference
“But you can only guarantee what has already been achieved.”
The United States and other Western countries contend Russia has supplied troops and equipment to the separatists in eastern Ukraine who have been fighting Ukrainian government forces since April
Russia denies the claims.
The resurgent fighting has prompted the U.S
to consider giving lethal weapons to Ukraine, an option opposed by European nations which fear the move would merely make the situation worse.
“The problem is that I cannot imagine any situation in which improved equipment for the Ukrainian army leads to President Putin being so impressed that he believes he will lose militarily,” Merkel said
“I have to put it that bluntly.”
Ukraine has “proven to be responsible, that we will not use the defensive equipment to the attack,” he said
“The stronger our defense, the more convincing is our diplomatic voice.”
Lavrov denounced “growing appeals in the West to … pump Ukraine full with lethal weapons and to involve it in NATO.” He said that “this position will only exacerbate the tragedy of Ukraine.”
Meanwhile, fighting continued in eastern Ukraine
Five Ukrainian servicemen were killed and 26 wounded in fighting over the past day, Ukrainian security council spokesman Volodymyr Polyoviy said Saturday
The government website in the port city of Mariupol said one man was killed in shelling of the outlying settlement of Gnutove, which it blamed on rebels.
Letters to the Editor
The breakdown of the ceasefire in Ukraine prompted one prominent German lawmaker to suggest it would undermine his country’s opposition to arming the Ukrainian military.
“We will no longer be able to stop weapons deliveries from the U.S
and Canada,” said Karl-Georg Wellman, a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party.
It sounded very much as if Canada has already agreed to supply weapons to the Ukrainian government.
Not so, said the new defence minister, Jason Kenney, at a defence industry gathering Thursday
“We are consulting closely with our allies, and as the Prime Minister has said … all options are on the table.”
He said the government has agreed to provide RADARSAT 2 satellite images, so precise they can track objects as small as individual vehicles, but the caveat is that they should not be used for targeting Russian and rebel forces.
Military sources said the Ukrainian military’s big requirement is light anti-armour weapons
Canada has two systems that could possibly be made available – the ERYX wire guided light anti-tank missile and the TOW long-range wire guided missile system
Both would likely need Canadian military personnel to be deployed to train local forces in their use.
Crucially, both would be capable of helping the Ukrainians take on the tanks that the Russians have poured into eastern Ukraine, while denying having any presence in the country.
In the wake of Ottawa’s latest sanctions and travel bans aimed at constraining Vladimir Putin’s rogue regime, arms supplies would be the next logical move.
It would likely require an end to President Barack Obama’s policy of “strategic patience,” since the TOW at least is U.S
technology.
John Kerry, the U.S
Secretary of State, has reportedly told members of Congress he supports arming Ukraine, and if Washington shifts policy, others like Canada, Poland, the Baltic states and even the U.K
could follow.
The violation of Minsk 2, the latest ceasefire, makes clear that Mr
Putin is exploiting the West’s weakness
The White House statement – that “the costs to Russia will rise if it continues to violate the agreement” — will have helped convince the Russian leader that his continued aggression will go unpunished.
Minsk 2 virtually sanctioned the creation of a puppet state in eastern Ukraine
The first ceasefire called for permanent monitoring of the Ukraine-Russia border by the Organization for Safety and Cooperation in Europe
The new agreement says Ukrainian control over its borders in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions will be returned after local elections – that is, never.
Mikhail Kasyanov, a former Russian prime minister, was in Ottawa last November and made a compelling case for the West to take a hardline with Mr
Putin.
The Russian leader is nervous that the West will take a principled position, he said
If the West stays strong and makes it clear there are consequences, he will not go further, said Mr
Kasyanov
But if a compromise is offered, he will be encouraged and his attention will switch to Moldova and the Baltic states to launch similar assymetric wars.
A few Apple Watch games stand out from the crowd as enjoyable experiences despite most of them being pretty terrible
Letters to the Editor
In recent days, the situation in Central Europe has moved from disturbing to alarming
Vladimir Putin, undeterred by Western sanctions, is escalating his country’s incremental invasion of Ukraine.
When fighting first began last year, the Russians at least pretended to have no direct control over the heavily armed, well trained and impressively equipped “separatists” inside eastern Ukraine
Today, while locally raised militias are believed still to be doing most of the actual fighting, they are doing so with direct — and increasingly open — military support from Russian troops and advanced weapon systems
Last week, United States Air Force General Philip Breelove, NATO’s supreme commander in Europe, said it was clear that there were “hundreds and hundreds” of Russian troops operating on Ukrainian territory
There are increasing reports of Russian families being told their loved ones, who serve in the military, have been killed … but the government won’t say where.
The scope of the fighting is also increasing
The Russian-supported separatists are pushing deeper into Ukrainian territory, while the overmatched Ukrainian military, despite often heroic resistance, is forced to give ground
Top-of-the-line Russian tanks are crushing Ukrainian units armed with outdated anti-tank missiles
Heavy artillery units — some of them believed to be based inside Russia — are hammering targets inside Ukraine, and inflicting collateral damage on civilians.
Sanctions haven’t stopped Russia
Tough talk for Mr
Putin hasn’t stopped Russia
The plunge in global oil prices, which has hit Russia particularly hard, may actually be making the problem worse, as Moscow looks for ways to distract its people
But one way or another Russia must be stopped
The precedent — of larger powers invading and annexing their neighbours, and in Europe of all places — cannot be allowed to stand.
War between NATO and Russia, of course, remains out of the question
Ukraine is not a member of NATO, and NATO’s defence guarantees must perforce be limited to NATO members
But Ukraine deserves a chance to fight the Russians on more equal terms.
In response to the escalating Russian aggression, the United States has been musing of late about providing weapons, munitions and advanced military supplies to Ukraine
This could include radars that can detect an incoming artillery shell in flight and calculate precisely where it was fired from
This would not only allow the Ukrainians to return fire accurately, but would also show definitively that some of the fire is coming from inside Russian territory.
These systems should be provided to Ukraine immediately, along with whatever training and logistical help is needed to get them operational
Ditto other heavy and advanced weapons that might give the Ukrainians a fighting chance
The United States, with its vast stocks of weapons and supplies, will be the most helpful country in this — but other NATO members, including Canada, should do their part — something some of our NATO allies seem reluctant, at best, to consider
But if Mr
Putin is to be stopped, Ukraine must be armed.
This is no small step
The mere suggestion has already elicited angry denuncations from Moscow
Too bad
If Mr
Putin is concerned for the safety of his troops he has only to pull them back inside their own territory and tell them to stop firing into Ukraine.<
It is to be hoped that such transfers of military hardware will impress upon Mr
Putin that he has gone too far
But it may not
Further steps may therefore be required
It is not coincidental that, in invading first Georgia and now Ukraine, Mr
Putin has targeted countries that, while pro-Western, are not members of NATO
At some point the question of NATO membership for both will have to be addressed.
Meantime, the alliance should proceed with plans to establish command bases in NATO countries in eastern Europe and to create a rapid-reaction force capable of responding swiftly to any sudden Russian moves
Again, Canada should contribute to this, in proportion to its resources.
A few Apple Watch games stand out from the crowd as enjoyable experiences despite most of them being pretty terrible
The military alliance agreed in a Brussels meeting to establish a series of six command centres and two regional headquarters deep inside eastern Europe, creating important hubs for training and the possible deployment of troops in a crisis.
The increasing violence in eastern Ukraine and apparent buildup of Russian forces in the region was condemned by both Defence Minister Rob Nicholson in Brussels and Prime Minister Stephen Harper back home.
They should get the message we and other countries have been delivering, that they should back off their aggression against Ukraine
“Have a look at the way NATO runs and has always run,” Nicholson said in a conference call following the meeting
“They should get the message we and other countries have been delivering, that they should back off their aggression against Ukraine.”
Despite the tough talk, neither Harper, nor Nicholson would immediately commit to send soldiers to staff any of the eight command units, saying instead that the government will examine where it can best help.
Canada has a frigate as part of NATO’s standing naval task force and recently saw four CF-18s return home from an air policing mission over the Baltic
It will send troops to further training exercises this year.
Nicholson also refused to commit to arming Ukraine, which the U.S
is actively considering.
The defence ministers also met government representatives from the former Soviet republic of Georgia, which is seeking admission to NATO — something Nicholson says Canada supports.
Supporting the tiny republic, which is sandwiched between Russia and Turkey, is a cost-free exercise for Canada, said defence expert Steve Saideman, of Carleton University.
The Harper government’s reluctance to detail what it intends to contribute, over and above existing commitments, makes everything the prime minister and Nicholson have said ring hollow, Saideman said.
“On a lot of stuff, Canada can talk all it wants because it doesn’t have to pay the cost.
As President Barack Obama’s pick to run the Pentagon said Wednesday he’s inclined to support lethal weapons transfers, Ukraine’s president said he was confident the U.S
would do so
Meanwhile, outgoing Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel and Secretary of State John Kerry were flying to discuss Ukraine and other issues with allies in Europe
Vice-President Joe Biden is due to follow them on Thursday.
“I very much incline in that direction … because I think we need to support the Ukrainians in defending themselves,” Defence Secretary-nominee Ashton Carter told Congress at his confirmation hearing when asked if the administration should provide defensive weapons to Kyiv.
The remarks were the latest in a series of signals this week that the White House may reverse its opposition to arming Ukraine to help its struggling military repel Moscow-backed insurgents — despite concerns that might escalate the conflict, turn it into an overt proxy war with Russia and set Washington at odds with its European partners.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, a key ally in pressuring Russia to end its support for the rebels, said Tuesday that there is no military solution to the crisis and that Germany will not supply weapons to Ukraine.
In Ukraine, President Petro Poroshenko said his government badly needs lethal aid to help repel the separatist attacks in the conflict that that has left 5,300 people dead
And, he said he was convinced it would be coming.
“I don’t have a slightest doubt that the decision to supply Ukraine with weapons will be made by the United States as well as by other partners of ours because we need to have the capabilities to defend ourselves,” he said on a Tuesday visit to the government-controlled city of Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine.
Poroshenko will have an opportunity to make his case in person to Kerry, who will be in Kyiv on Thursday, and then later in the week to Biden and to Merkel when all four will be at an international security conference in Munich
It what is likely to be a tense meeting, Kerry also plans to see Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov at the Munich conference.
Despite the presence on the continent of the trio of top Obama national security aides, the White House and State Department both said any announcement of a change in policy would not likely happen this week.
Biden travels first to Brussels, where he will join with Hagel for meetings with top NATO officials to discuss the situation in Ukraine, which has deteriorated badly in recent weeks amid a new surge in rebel activity.
That escalation in fighting has prompted the reconsideration of lethal aid.
Specifically, senior American officials previewing Biden’s trip said the U.S
had taken note of how the separatists had pushed beyond established lines of control and that Russia was resupplying the separatists “in a very significant way.” The officials briefed reporters ahead of Biden’s trip on condition of anonymity.
While in Europe, Biden will also discuss with Poroshenko and others increased financial assistance to Ukraine as well as the possibility of increasing sanctions on Russia in the event it does not change course, according to the officials
They added that the U.S
still does not see a military solution to the conflict.
The training is part of an agreement Nicholson signed with Ukraine pledging Canadian help in the face of Russian aggression.
“The declaration seeks to initiate a process to strengthen the capacity of the Ukrainian government to defend its borders and people,” Nicholson said in a conference call.
It will also explore co-operation in military training and building military capacity “through the provision of general support training such as military police, medical and personal protective measures.”
“There are a number that have come and gone in support of various missions and the military police, they’re coming, they will be here for a deployment and then they will leave
This is a continuing effort.”
Last month, the Canadian Forces began shipping more gear, including tactical communication systems, explosive ordinance disposal equipment, tactical medical kits, night vision goggles and winter clothing.
